[{'id': 'db6843b10d52bc1e6c58e3edc34589d0419960a4ef5b9e312512364933855de5', 'headline': 'Salmonella Outbreak Linked to Small Turtles | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 16, 1, 1, 18, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/typhimurium-02-21/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted February 23, 2021, , Pet turtles can carry Salmonella germs in their droppings even if they look healthy and clean. These germs can easily spread to their bodies, tank water, and anything in the area where they live and roam., You can get sick from touching your turtle or anything in its environment and then touching your mouth and swallowing Salmonella germs., Always take these steps to stay healthy around your pet turtle:, If you are thinking of getting a pet turtle:, Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of these severe Salmonella symptoms:, Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '3d7df6a4a2542d74e3314575f62ffdc768347386151d0eb495803c0af22dcb94', 'headline': 'Questions and Answers | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 12, 5, 1, 36, 57, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/general/index.html', 'main_text': 'Salmonella are bacteria that make people sick. They were first discovered by an American scientist named Dr. Daniel E. Salmon in 1885. , Most types of Salmonella cause an illness called salmonellosis, which is the focus of this website. Some other types of Salmonella cause typhoid fever or paratyphoid fever., Most people with Salmonella infection have diarrhea, fever, and stomach cramps., Symptoms usually begin six hours to six days after infection and last four to seven days. However, some people do not develop symptoms for several weeks after infection and others experience symptoms for several weeks., Salmonella strains sometimes cause infection in urine, blood, bones, joints, or the nervous system (spinal fluid and brain), and can cause severe disease., Scientists classify Salmonella into serotypes (types) by identifying structures on the bacteria’s surfaces. Although more than 2,500 serotypes have been described, fewer than 100 are known to cause human infections., Salmonella infection is diagnosed when a laboratory test detects Salmonella bacteria in a person’s stool (poop), body tissue, or fluids., Most people recover from Salmonella infection within four to seven days without antibiotics. People who are sick with a Salmonella infection should drink extra fluids as long as diarrhea lasts., Antibiotic treatment is recommended for:, Most people with diarrhea caused by Salmonella recover completely, although some people’s bowel habits (frequency and consistency of poop) may not return to normal for a few months., Some people with Salmonella infection develop pain in their joints, called reactive arthritis, after the infection has ended. Reactive arthritis can last for months or years and can be difficult to treat. Some people with reactive arthritis develop irritation of the eyes and pain when urinating., Salmonella live in the intestines of people and animals. People can get Salmonella infection from a variety of sources, including, Resistance to essential antibiotics is increasing in Salmonella, which can limit treatment options for people with severe infections.  One way to slow down the development of antibiotic resistance is by appropriate use of antibiotics., Appropriate use of antibiotics in people and animals (use only when needed and exactly as prescribed) can help prevent antibiotic resistance and the spread of resistant bacteria., CDC estimates Salmonella cause about 1.35 million illnesses, 26,500 hospitalizations, and 420 deaths in the United States every year., , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'db6843b10d52bc1e6c58e3edc34589d0419960a4ef5b9e312512364933855de5', 'headline': 'Salmonella Outbreak Linked to Small Turtles | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 16, 1, 1, 18, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/typhimurium-02-21/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted February 23, 2021, , Pet turtles can carry Salmonella germs in their droppings even if they look healthy and clean. These germs can easily spread to their bodies, tank water, and anything in the area where they live and roam., You can get sick from touching your turtle or anything in its environment and then touching your mouth and swallowing Salmonella germs., Always take these steps to stay healthy around your pet turtle:, If you are thinking of getting a pet turtle:, Call your healthcare provider right away if you have any of these severe Salmonella symptoms:, Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '59f92f4ac5fcab5f650fbfe731dde135331fa765489f5b8b2b52a2983946af6d', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Pet Bearded Dragons | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 11, 24, 5, 8, 24, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/muenster-10-20/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted November 24, 2020 at 2:00 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. However, people can still get a Salmonella infection from pet bearded dragons. Always take steps to stay healthy around pet bearded dragons. , CDC and public health officials in several states investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Muenster infections linked to pet bearded dragons., , , Bearded dragons can carry Salmonella germs in their droppings even if they look healthy and clean. These germs can easily spread to their bodies, habitats, and anything in the area where they live., You can get sick from touching your bearded dragon or anything in its environment and then touching your mouth or face and swallowing Salmonella germs., Take these steps to stay healthy around bearded dragons:, , , CDC and public health officials in several states investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Muenster infections linked to bearded dragons., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of November 20, 2020, a total of 18 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Muenster were reported from 11 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 29, 2020, to October 17, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 76 years, with a median age of 26 years. Six ill people are children under 5 years of age. Fifty-six percent of ill people were female. Of 17 ill people with information available, 11 were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis of 14 bacterial isolates from ill people did not predict any antibiotic resistance. Standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) of three isolates also showed no resistance., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence showed that contact with pet bearded dragons was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, people answered questions about animal contact in the week before they got sick. Of the 16 people interviewed, 11 (69%) reported contact with bearded dragons before getting sick. Ill people reported buying bearded dragons from various pet stores in multiple states. A common supplier was not identified., The outbreak strain making people sick was identified in samples collected from a bearded dragon and its environment from the home of an ill person in Virginia., Bearded dragons can carry Salmonella germs that can make people sick even if they look healthy and clean. Bearded dragon owners should always follow steps to stay healthy around their pet., This outbreak investigation is over. CDC will continue to work with state public health partners to monitor for Salmonella infections linked to contact with pet bearded dragons., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '6b5e1b8d463aafd37847b4b198c2f43b8298581eab9dbf27d977b78d9cda98f7', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogs | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 1, 13, 2, 25, 46, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/typhimurium-09-20/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted January 13, 2021 at 1:00 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. Although the investigation is over, people can still get a Salmonella infection from hedgehogs. Always take steps to stay healthy around pet hedgehogs., CDC, public health officials in several states, and Canada investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to contact with pet hedgehogs., , , Hedgehogs can carry Salmonella germs in their droppings even if they look healthy and clean. These germs can easily spread to their bodies, habitats, and anything in the area where they live., You can get sick from touching your hedgehog or anything in its environment and then touching your mouth or face and swallowing Salmonella germs., Take these steps to stay healthy around pet hedgehogs:, If you are thinking of getting a pet hedgehog:, , , CDC, public health officials in several states, and Canada investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to contact with pet hedgehogs., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of January 11, 2021, a total of 49 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from 25 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from April 12, 2020, to November 24, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 61 years, with a median age of 11, and 14 ill people were children younger than 5. Of all ill people, 57% were female. Of 42 ill people with information available, 11 (26%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis of 54 bacterial isolates from ill people did not predict any antibiotic resistance. Testing of three outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory also showed no resistance., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence showed that contact with pet hedgehogs was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, people answered questions about animal contact in the week before they got sick. Of 36 people interviewed, 30 (83%) reported contact with hedgehogs before getting sick. They reported buying hedgehogs from various places, including pet stores, breeders, and online stores. A single, common supplier was not identified., The outbreak strain making people sick was identified in samples collected from a hedgehog habitat in the home of an ill person in California and from hedgehogs in the homes of ill people in New York and North Dakota., This outbreak strain is the same as outbreak strains linked to hedgehogs in 2012 and in 2019. The Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) also recently investigated an outbreak with the same strainexternal icon that was linked to pet hedgehogs., Hedgehogs can carry Salmonella germs that can make people sick even if they look healthy and clean. Hedgehog owners should always follow steps to stay healthy around their pet hedgehog., This outbreak investigation is over. CDC will continue to work with state public health partners to monitor for Salmonella infections linked to contact with pet hedgehogs., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '3918c27474a3ed88a31027b0c867052473b9db53cd2931e3b3752472365d243b', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Stanley Infections Linked to Wood Ear Mushrooms | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 11, 4, 7, 10, 26, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/stanley-09-20/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Updated November 4, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. People could get sick if restaurants that are unaware of the recall continue to serve recalled wood ear mushrooms because of their long shelf life. Check the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) website for the list of recalledexternal icon products., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the FDAexternal icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Stanley infections linked to wood ear mushrooms (also commonly known as kikurage or dried fungus)., , , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and FDA investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Stanley infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 55 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Stanley were reported from 12 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 21, 2020, to September 19, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from 2 to 74 years, with a median age of 28. Fifty-seven percent of ill people were female. Of 48 ill people with information available, 6 hospitalizations were reported. No deaths were reported., Whole genome sequencing analysis of 35 bacterial isolates from ill people did not predict any antibiotic resistance. Standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is underway., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback information showed that wood ear mushrooms distributed by Wismettac Asian Foods, Inc., were the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 23 people with information, 22 (96%) reported eating ramen at a restaurant in the week before their illness started. Several people reported eating at the same ramen restaurants, showing they may have been part of illness clusters., A foodborne illness cluster is defined as two or more people who do not live in the same household who report eating at the same restaurant location, attending a common event, or shopping at the same location of a grocery store in the week before becoming ill. Investigating illness clusters can provide critical clues about the source of an outbreak. If several unrelated ill people ate or shopped at the same location of a restaurant or store within several days of each other, it suggests that the contaminated food item was served or sold there., Five illness clusters were identified at restaurants serving ramen in three states. Ten (91%) of the 11 ill people linked to restaurant clusters reported eating wood ear mushrooms or ramen containing wood ear mushrooms in the week before their illness started., FDA and states conducted a traceback investigation from four of the restaurants with illness clusters to identify the source of the wood ear mushrooms eaten by ill people. Traceback determined that Wismettac Asian Foods, Inc., supplied wood ear mushrooms (dried fungus) to these restaurants., On September 23, 2020, Wismettac Asian Foods recalledexternal icon dried fungus due to possible Salmonella contamination. On October 1, 2020, the California Department of Public Health identified the outbreak strain of Salmonella Stanley in recalled dried fungus samples., As of November 4, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '092f6d9d2faefc64b9b3a69ef549d5f8b2e4fa2477fa32ab59b1a1e95fdfc67c', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis Infections Linked to Peaches | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 10, 16, 11, 52, 27, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/enteritidis-08-20/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Updated October 16, 2020 at 12:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. Recalled peaches should no longer be available in stores. Always choose and handle fruit safely to help prevent foodborne illness. Wash hands and food preparation surfaces before and after handling fruit., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, Canadaexternal icon, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)external icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to peaches packed or supplied by Prima Wawona or Wawona Packing Company., , Always choose and handle fruit safely to help prevent foodborne illness., , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, FDA, and the Public Health Agency of Canada investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 101 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis were reported from 17 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from June 29, 2020, to August 27, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from 1 to 92 years, with a median age of 43. Sixty-four percent of ill people were female. Of 90 ill people with available information, 28 hospitalizations were reported. No deaths were reported., Whole genome sequencing analysis of 83 bacterial isolates from ill people did not predict any antibiotic resistance. Standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is underway., Whole genome sequencing analysis showed that an outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections in Canada was related genetically to this outbreak in the United States. This means that people in both outbreaks were likely to share a common source of infection., Epidemiologic and traceback evidence indicated that peaches packed or supplied by Prima Wawona or Wawona Packing Company were the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 62 people with information, 50 (81%) reported eating fresh peaches in the week before their illness started. This percentage was significantly higher than results from a survey pdf icon[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy people in which 20% reported eating peaches in the week before they were interviewed. Of the 40 people who reported information on how the peaches were packaged, 25 (63%) reported buying loose peaches and the remaining 15 reported buying pre-bagged peaches., The FDA and regulatory officials in several states collected records from grocery stores where ill people reported buying peaches. These records showed that loose and bagged peaches distributed by Wawona Packing Company, LLC, were sold at multiple grocery stores where ill people bought peaches., On August 22, 2020, Prima Wawona recalledexternal icon bagged and bulk, or loose, peaches that they supplied to retailers nationwide. See FDA’s noticeexternal icon for a list of recalled products. Recalled products are past their shelf life and should no longer be available in stores., As of October 16, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '31009011142050b17a69f7bcf2ac8fe14b1d6b010c62a51c78a416f99794e0be', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Newport Infections Linked to Onions | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 10, 8, 3, 11, 29, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/newport-07-20/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Updated October 8, 2020 at 4:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over, but recalled onions could still be in homes or freezers. If you have recalled onions and products, don’t eat them. Throw them away., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon (FDA), and Canadaexternal icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Newport infections linked to onions. , , , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, FDA, and Canada investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Newport infections linked to onions., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 1,127 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Newport were reported from 48 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from June 19, 2020, to September 11, 2020 . Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 to 102 years, with a median age of 41. Fifty-eight percent of ill people were female. Of 705 ill people with information available, 167 people were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Whole genome sequencing analysis of 732 bacterial isolates from ill people did not predict any antibiotic resistance in 730 isolates; one isolate had predicted resistance to ampicillin, and one isolate had predicted resistance to tetracycline. Standard antibiotic susceptibility testing of eight clinical isolates by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory showed no resistance. This resistance should not affect the choice of antibiotic used to treat most people., Epidemiologic and traceback evidence showed that red onions from Thomson International Inc. were the likely source of this outbreak. Other onion types (such as white, yellow, or sweet yellow) were also likely to be contaminated because the onions were grown and harvested together., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Ninety-one percent of people reported eating onions or foods likely containing onions in the week before their illness started. Of the 208 people who were asked what types of onions they ate, 137 (66%) ate red onions, 130 (63%) ate white onions, and 110 (53%) ate yellow onions. Most ill people reported eating more than one type of onion., FDA and states reviewed records where ill people purchased or ate onions and foods containing onions. This traceback investigation identified Thomson International Inc. as the likely source of red onions., The Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) and The Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA) also investigated an outbreak of Salmonella Newport infections in Canada that was related genetically by WGS to the U.S. outbreak. Their investigationexternal icon identified red onions from Thomson International Inc. as the likely source of their outbreak., On August 1, 2020, Thomson International Inc. recalledexternal icon all red, yellow, white, and sweet yellow onions because they may be contaminated with Salmonella. Other companies also recalled onions or foods made with recalled onions. See the full list of recalled products. Consumers, restaurants, and retailers should not eat, serve, or sell recalled onions and products., As of October 8, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over. FDA is continuing their investigation to find the root cause of this outbreak., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '415223f5ca782aa75e2549c1d296c055cc2d8fbc808c533961bdb8251a49d1a8', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Backyard Poultry | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 12, 17, 9, 48, 23, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/backyardpoultry-05-20/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted December 17, 2020 at 4:50 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. Although the investigation is over, people can still get a Salmonella infection from chickens and ducks in backyard flocks. Stay healthy around your backyard flock by washing your hands, keeping your birds outdoors, and supervising young children around your flock., In 2020, CDC and public health officials in all 50 states investigated 17 multistate outbreaks of Salmonella illnesses linked to contact with poultry in backyard flocks. The number of illnesses reported this year was higher than the number reported during any of the past years’ outbreaks linked to backyard flocks., , , , Backyard poultry can carry Salmonella bacteria even if they look healthy and clean and show no signs of illness. You can get sick with a Salmonella infection from touching backyard poultry or their environment. Follow these tips to stay healthy with your backyard flock, even if there is not an ongoing outbreak:, Wash your hands., Be safe around poultry., Supervise kids around poultry., Handle eggs safely., For more recommendations on keeping poultry, visit the Healthy Pets, Healthy People website section on backyard poultry., , , , In 2020, CDC and public health officials in all 50 states investigated 17 multistate outbreaks of Salmonella infections linked to backyard poultry., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of December 17, 2020, a total of 1,722 people infected with one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella were reported from all 50 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each is on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates from January 14, 2020, to November 27, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 95 years, with a median age of 35. Children younger than 5 accounted for 24% of ill people. Of ill people, 59% were female. Of 1,004 people with information available, 333 (33%) were hospitalized. One death in Oklahoma was reported., If antibiotics were needed, some infections related to these outbreaks may have been difficult to treat with some commonly recommended antibiotics and may have required a different antibiotic choice. Whole genome sequencing performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from 1,641 ill people and two environmental samples showed predicted antibiotic resistance to one or more of the following antibiotics for 848 isolates:, There was no antibiotic resistance predicted for 795 (48.4%) isolates. Testing of 13 outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory showed resistance to streptomycin and tetracycline in 3 isolates and no resistance in 10 isolates (fosfomycin and kanamycin were not tested by this method)., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence showed that contact with backyard poultry (such as chicks and ducklings) was the likely source of these outbreaks., In interviews, ill people answered questions about animal contact and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 876 people interviewed, 576 (66%) reported contact with chicks and ducklings before becoming ill., Testing of backyard poultry and their environments (such as backyard coops) in Kentucky and Oregon found three of the outbreak strains., Ill people reported buying poultry from many sources, including agricultural stores, websites, and hatcheries. No single store chain or hatchery could account for all of the illnesses., Regardless of where backyard poultry are purchased, they can carry Salmonella germs that can make people sick. Backyard poultry owners should always follow steps to stay healthy around their flocks., As of December 17, 2020, this outbreak investigation is over. CDC will continue to work with partners to prevent Salmonella infections linked to contact with backyard poultry., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'cfa0304ad3bf99075bc4e650df8b817b61911e74c43d86b9a89f922054d2c1ed', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Small Pet Turtles  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Small Pet Turtles | January 2020 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 3, 13, 3, 44, 35, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/typhimurium-1-20/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Published on March 13, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. Always wash your hands after touching pet turtles or their environments. Don’t buy turtles with shell lengths less than 4 inches. Read more about how to stay healthy around turtles., CDC and public health officials in several states investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to small pet turtles., , , Don’t buy turtles with shells smaller than 4 inches in length. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration bansexternal icon the sale and distribution of these turtles., Turtles can carry Salmonella germs in their droppings and look healthy and clean, regardless of their size or where they were purchased. These germs can easily spread to their bodies, tank water, and habitats. People can get sick after they touch a turtle or anything in their habitats., People who own or come in contact with turtles should take steps to stay healthy around their pet:, , CDC and public health officials in several states investigated a multistate outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to contact with small pet turtles., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 35 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from 9 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from July 29, 2019, to December 24, 2019. Ill people range in age from 1 to 71 years, with a median age of 7. Children younger than 12 account for 69% (24 of 35) of ill people. Sixty-three percent of ill people were female. Eleven hospitalizations were reported among the 31 ill people with information available. No deaths were reported. Of 30 ill people with ethnicity information available, 19 (63%) are Hispanic., WGS analysis did not identify antibiotic resistance in 35 bacterial isolates (34 clinical isolates from ill people and one isolate from a turtle). One additional clinical isolate contained a resistance gene for ampicillin. This resistance likely will not affect the choice of antibiotic used to treat most people. Testing of three clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory found no resistance., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that contact with small pet turtles was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about animal contact in the week before they became ill. Of 24 people interviewed, 20 (83%) reported contact with a pet turtle. Thirteen people remembered the size of their turtle, and all of them reported contact with turtles whose shells were less than 4 inches long. Ill people reported buying small pet turtles from flea markets, swap meets, pet stores, or receiving turtles as a gift. Testing of a turtle and its environment at one ill person’s home yielded the outbreak strain., Previous Salmonella outbreaks have been linked to pet turtles with a shell length less than 4 inches. In 1975, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration bannedexternal icon the sale and distribution of turtles with shells less than 4 inches long due to their link to Salmonella illnesses in people., Turtles can carry Salmonella germs that can make people sick, regardless of their size or where they were purchased. Pet owners should always follow steps to stay healthy around their pet., As of March 13, 2020, this outbreak investigation is over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'cf59b3027d7b3c958ec8a140b4787c7517dc282c66cfd16f096e1ab3aadaf112', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Cut Fruit  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Cut Fruit | December 2019 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 2, 18, 6, 16, 41, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/javiana-12-19/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Published on February 18, 2020 at 2:30 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and retailers choose and handle fruit safely to help prevent foodborne illness. Wash hands and food preparation surfaces before and after handling fruit. Refrigerate cut fruit at 40°F or colder., CDC, public health, and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Javiana infections linked to cut fruit produced by Tailor Cut Produce., , CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and retailers always choose and handle fruit safely to help prevent foodborne illness., , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Javiana infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were likely to share a common source of infection., As of February 14, 2020, a total of 165 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Javiana were reported from 14 states. Illnesses were reported from states where Tailor Cut Produce distributed cut fruit, including Delaware, New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania. Most ill people from the other 10 states reported traveling to at least one of these 4 states in the week before their illness started. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from November 7, 2019 to January 11, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 to 92 years, with a median age of 44. Fifty-three percent of ill people were female. Of 111 ill people with information available, 73 were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis did not identify antibiotic resistance in bacteria isolated from 150 ill people. Testing of two outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) showed resistance to streptomycin in one isolate. This resistance did not affect the choice of antibiotic used to treat most people., Epidemiologic and traceback evidence indicated that cut fruit, including honeydew melon, cantaloupe, pineapple, and grapes produced by Tailor Cut Produce of North Brunswick, New Jersey, was a likely source of this outbreak., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to determine what they ate and other exposures in the week before their illness started. Fifty-eight (94%) of 62 ill people reported eating cut fruit. Most ill people reported eating cut fruit served in long-term care facilities, hospitals, hotels, or schools. Several ill people reported purchasing cut fruit from multiple locations of a grocery store chain., State health officials collected records from the locations where ill people ate or purchased the cut fruit and determined that these locations served or sold cut fruit from Tailor Cut Produce. On December 7, 2019, Tailor Cut Produce recalledexternal icon its Fruit Luau cut fruit mix and cut honeydew melon, cut cantaloupe, and cut pineapple., FDA’s investigational activitiesexternal icon, including an inspection of the Tailor Cut Produce facility in New Jersey, are complete. FDA worked with CDC and state partners to trace back the cut fruit and learn more about the potential routes of contamination. Tailor Cut Produce was identified as the common processor, but the source of the contamination was not identified., As of February 18, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '14026446e15e61e890fcf75ef5d7c774fc73d8afe705c245f77d4708696c205b', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Ground Beef  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Ground Beef | November 2019 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 1, 29, 1, 1, 12, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/dublin-11-19/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Published on December 30, 2019 at 5:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. Consumers and restaurants should always handle and cook ground beef safely to help prevent foodborne illness., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Dublin infections linked to ground beef., , , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Dublin infections linked to ground beef., Since the last update on November 18, 2019, two additional ill people were reported from Colorado and New Mexico. A total of 13 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Dublin were reported from eight states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from August 8, 2019, to October 22, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from 39 to 74 years, with a median age of 66. Sixty-two percent of ill people were male. Of 11 ill people with information available, 9 (82%) were hospitalized. One death was reported from California. In six (46%) ill people, Salmonella was found in samples of blood, which indicates their illnesses may have been more severe. Salmonella Dublin is known to commonly cause more severe illnesses than other Salmonella strains, particularly in older people., Whole genome sequencing analysis did not identify any antibiotic resistance in 20 bacterial isolates from 13 ill people and seven food specimens. Testing of two clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) confirmed these results., Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory evidence  indicated that ground beef was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of nine people interviewed, eight (89%) reported eating ground beef at home. This percentage was significantly higher than results from a survey pdf icon[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people in which 40% of respondents reported eating any ground beef at home in the week before they were interviewed. Ill people reported buying ground beef from various stores., Laboratory testing identified the outbreak strain of Salmonella Dublin in repackaged leftover ground beef collected from an ill person’s home in California. The outbreak strain of Salmonella Dublin was also identified in six samples of raw beef products from slaughter and processing establishments. Samples from slaughter and processing establishments were collected as part of FSIS’s routine testing under the Salmonella performance standards. WGS showed that the Salmonella strain from these samples was closely related genetically to the Salmonella from ill people. These results provided more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating ground beef., USDA-FSIS and state partners traced the source of some of the ground beef eaten by one ill person in this outbreak to Central Valley Meat Co., Inc. On November 15, 2019, Central Valley Meat Co., Inc., recalledexternal icon 34,222 pounds of ground beef produced that may be contaminated with Salmonella Dublin., A single supplier, distributor, or brand of ground beef was not identified that could account for all the illnesses in this outbreak., As of December 30, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'cec5ae7a5708733285d67a26c2535f673fb3fd76fda6053c14c12ed3e961a876', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Pet Turtles  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Pet Turtles | October 2019 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 1, 9, 7, 54, 37, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/oranienburg-10-19/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Published on January 9, 2020 at 3:30 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. Always wash your hands after touching pet turtles or their environments. Read more about how to stay healthy around turtles., CDC and public health officials in several states investigated a multistate outbreak of human Salmonella Oranienburg infections linked to pet turtles., , , Turtles can carry Salmonella germs in their droppings, even while looking healthy and clean. These germs can easily spread to their bodies, tank water, and habitats. People can get sick after they touch a turtle or anything in their habitats., People who own or come in contact with turtles should take steps to stay healthy around their pet:, , CDC and public health officials in several states investigated a multistate outbreak of human Salmonella Oranienburg infections linked to contact with pet turtles., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 26 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Oranienburg were reported from 14 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 29, 2019, to October 31, 2019. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 80 years, with a median age of 25. Seventy-three percent of ill people were female. Of 24 ill people with information available, 8 hospitalizations were reported. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis did not identify antibiotic resistance in the 23 bacterial isolates available from ill people. Testing of five outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory confirmed these results., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicate that contact with pet turtles was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about animal contact in the week before they became ill. Of the 22 people interviewed, 16 (73%) reported contact with a pet turtle. Of the 8 people who reported the species of the pet turtle, 7 (88%) reported contact with red-eared sliders. The outbreak strain of Salmonella Oranienburg was found in samples collected from an ill person’s pet turtle., Ill people reported buying pet turtles from pet stores or receiving them as a gift. Among the 10 people who remembered where they purchased their turtle, all 10 reported purchasing or having contact with turtles purchased from various Petco stores. CDC has made Petco aware of the investigation and is working with the company to update their educational materials for customers who purchase pet turtles., Among 11 people who knew the size of the turtle, 9 reported contact with a turtle that was four inches or larger. Previous Salmonella outbreaks have been linked to turtles with a shell length less than four inches. Due to the increased risk of Salmonella illness  linked with these small turtles, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration banned the sale and distributionexternal icon of turtles with shells less than four inches long as pets., Regardless of where turtles are purchased or their size, turtles can carry Salmonella germs that can make people sick. Pet stores should provide information about Salmonella to customers and pet owners should always follow steps to stay healthy around their pet., As of January 9, 2020, this outbreak investigation is over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '0c3e24ed1750d735d471d71759d2c62fba905aed9abb2dedd889ddca3123c868', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Multidrug-Resistant Salmonella Infections Linked to Contact with Pig Ear Pet Treats  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Pet Treats | July 2019 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 10, 30, 3, 30, 49, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/pet-treats-07-19/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Published on October 30, 2019 at 12:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. Always wash your hands after handling any pet treats or pet food. Read more about feeding pets safely., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)external icon investigated a multistate outbreak of multidrug-resistant Salmonella infections linked to contact with pig ear pet treats., , , Several companies recalled pig ear pet treat products because they might be contaminated with one or more of the outbreak strains of Salmonella. For more information on the recalls please see FDA’s investigationexternal icon website., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)external icon Center for Veterinary Medicine investigated a multistate outbreak of multidrug-resistant human Salmonella infections linked to contact with pig ear pet treats. Salmonella strains included were Cerro, Derby, London, Infantis, Newport, Rissen, and I 4,[5],12:i:-., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 154 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella were reported from 34 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from June 10, 2015, to September 13, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 90 years, with a median age of 40 years. Seventy (45%) ill people were female. Of 133 ill people with information available, 35 (26%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Whole genome sequencing (WGS) was conducted to identify any predicted antibiotic resistance in 110 isolates from ill people and 102 isolates from pig ear treat samples. A total of 164 isolates had predicted antibiotic resistance or decreased susceptibility to one or more of the following antibiotics: amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (&lt;1% of 164 isolates), ampicillin (53%), azithromycin (&lt;1%), cefoxitin (&lt;1%), ceftriaxone (&lt;1%), chloramphenicol (33%), ciprofloxacin (50%), fosfomycin (2%), gentamicin (27%), kanamycin (2%), nalidixic acid (26%), streptomycin (33%), sulfisoxazole (30%), tetracycline (58%), and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (27%). No antibiotic resistance was predicted for 48 (23%) isolates. Testing of 13 clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory provided comparable results (fosfomycin and kanamycin were not tested by this method). If antibiotics were needed, infections related to this outbreak may have been difficult to treat with some commonly recommended antibiotics, and may have required a different antibiotic choice., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicated that contact with pig ear pet treats was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about a variety of exposures, including animal and pet food contact in the week before they became ill. Of 128 ill people, 107 (84%) reported contact with a dog before getting sick. Of 94 people with available information, 62 (66%) reported contact with pig ear treats or with dogs who were fed pig ear treats. Both of these proportions were significantly higher than the results from a survey pdf icon[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people who reported contact with dogs (61%) or handling dog treats (16%), such as pig ear treats, in the week before interview., Testing of pig ear treats identified the outbreak strains of Salmonella in 135 samples. Some of the pig ear treats were imported from Argentina, Brazil, and Colombia. Some product labels indicated that the pig ear treats were irradiated. When properly conducted, the irradiation process should kill any Salmonella present on the pig ear treats. Finding Salmonella in products labeled as irradiated indicate they may not have been irradiated, they were not effectively irradiated, or there was another issue that caused Salmonella contamination. FDA  continues to investigate the manufacturing process and has posted answersexternal icon to frequently asked questions from members of the pig ear pet supply chain (manufacturers, suppliers, importers, distributors, retailers) regarding Salmonella control in these products., Several firms recalledexternal icon pig ear treats during the investigation because they were contaminated with Salmonella. No single supplier, distributor, or common brand of pig ear treats was identified., As of October 30, 2019, the outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '4a17646b382ac3015b9a9bf0c32e18a41a260ae1aed5224890bbbaaf64f844c4', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Cavi Brand Whole, Fresh Papayas  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Whole, Fresh Papayas Imported from Mexico | June 2019 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 10, 11, 2, 17, 50, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/uganda-06-19/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Published September 12, 2019 at 11:00 AM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. Consumers no longer need to avoid eating Cavi brand whole papayas imported from Mexico. Always choose and handle fruit safely to help prevent foodborne illness. Wash hands and food preparation surfaces before and after handling fruit., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Uganda infections linked to Cavi brand whole, fresh papayas distributed by Agroson’s LLC., , This outbreak appears to be over. Consumers no longer need to avoid eating Cavi brand whole papayas imported from Mexico. Always choose and handle fruit safely to help prevent foodborne illness., , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)external icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Uganda infections., A total of 81 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Uganda were reported from nine states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each is on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 14, 2019, to July 16, 2019. Most illnesses occurred since April 2019. Ill people ranged in age from less than one year to 90 years, with a median age of 62. Of ill people, 54% were female. Of 51 people with available information, 27 (53%) were hospitalized. No deaths attributed to Salmonella were reported. Of 48 ill people with available information, 31 (65%) were of Hispanic ethnicity., Whole genome sequencing analysis of 66 bacterial isolates from ill people predicted antibiotic resistance to streptomycin and sulfisoxazole. Testing of four clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) showed one isolate with resistance to streptomycin and three isolates with no resistance. This resistance does not affect the choice of antibiotic used to treat most people., Epidemiologic and traceback evidence indicates that Cavi brand whole, fresh papayas imported from Mexico were the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 34 people who were interviewed, 25 (74%) reported eating papayas. This proportion was significantly higher than the proportion found on a survey pdf icon[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy Hispanic people in the months of January through June in which 13% reported eating papayas in the week before they were interviewed., Two ill people in Florida and one ill person in Texas reported eating papayas during travel to the Northeast in the week before they got sick. This provided additional evidence that papayas were the likely source of this outbreak., The FDA and regulatory officials in several states collected records from grocery stores where ill people reported buying papayas. These records showed that Cavi brand papayas, distributed by Agroson’s LLC of The Bronx, New York, N.Y., were sold at multiple grocery stores where ill people bought papayas., As of September 12, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '502f403c4f74a7e335055c5651558cfd3eda835172efe07797ebc6b7914909cc', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Karawan brand Tahini \r\n | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Karawan brand Tahini | May 2019 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 6, 26, 5, 15, 12, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/concord-05-19/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, June 26, 2019 at 2:30 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over, but recalled tahini products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat these products and potentially get sick. Visit the FDA websiteexternal icon for a full list of recalled products., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)external icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella infections linked to Karawan brand tahini imported from Israel., , , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)external icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Concord infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on bacteria isolated from ill people showed that they were closely relatedly genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of June 26, 2019, a total of 6 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Concord were reported from 3 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 9, 2019 to May 2, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from 8 to 33 years, with a median age of 21. Four of the 6 sick people (67%) were female. One hospitalization and no deaths were reported., This outbreak was not related to another recent multistate outbreak of Salmonella Concord infections linked to tahini. People in the previous outbreak were infected with a different outbreak strain of Salmonella Concord., WGS analysis of four clinical isolates and two food isolates did not predict resistance to any antibiotics. Testing of two outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory also showed no resistance., Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory evidence indicated that Karawan brand tahini products were the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Four (80%) of the 5 people interviewed reported eating tahini or hummus made with tahini., Investigators with the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene collected records and food samples at restaurants where ill people ate. Records indicated that the tahini used at these restaurants was Karawan brand tahini. The  outbreak strain was isolated from opened and sealed containers of Karawan brand tahini collected at one of the restaurants., WGS results showed that the Salmonella strain identified in Karawan brand tahini samples collected at a restaurant was closely related genetically to the Salmonella strain identified in ill people. These results provided more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating Karawan brand tahini., Brodt Zenatti Holding LLC of Jupiter, Fla., recalledexternal icon Karawan and Soco brand tahini products because they might be contaminated with Salmonella. Restaurants and retailers should not serve or sell recalled Karawan or SoCobrand tahini products or products made with them, such as hummus. Consumers who have any recalled tahini products in their homes should not eat them and throw them away., As of June 26, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'c148a8e57c63be08fbe389c14a387a78d012704bc8d62639415a9f9134f2b5f7', 'headline': 'Outbreaks of Salmonella Infections Linked to Backyard Poultry \r\n | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Backyard Poultry | May 2019 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 10, 22, 8, 4, 21, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/backyardpoultry-05-19/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted October 22, 2019 at 5:00 PM ET, CDC and public health officials in many states investigated 13 multistate outbreaks of Salmonella infections linked to contact with backyard poultry. These outbreak investigations are over. , Backyard poultry can carry Salmonella germs that can make people sick, even when the birds look healthy and clean. Backyard flock owners should always follow steps to stay healthy around their poultry., , , , People can get sick with Salmonella infections from touching backyard poultry and the places where they live and roam. Backyard poultry can carry Salmonella germs but look healthy and clean and show no signs of illness., , CDC and public health officials in several states investigated 13 multistate outbreaks of Salmonella infections with serotypes Agona, Alachua, Altona, Anatum, Braenderup, Enteritidis, Infantis, Manhattan, Montevideo, Muenchen, Newport, and Oranienburg. Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicated that contact with backyard poultry, such as chicks and ducklings, from multiple hatcheries was the likely source of these outbreaks., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of these outbreaks. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In these outbreaks, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in these outbreaks were more likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 1,134 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella were reported from 49 states and the District of Columbia. A list of the states and the number of cases in each is on the map of reported cases page., Illnesses started on dates from January 1, 2019, to October 9, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 99 years, with a median age of 34. Of 988 ill people with age information available, 212 (21%) were children younger than 5. Fifty-six percent were female. Of 740 people with information available, 219 (30%) were hospitalized. Two deaths were reported from Ohio and Texas., Whole genome sequencing (WGS) was conducted to identify any predicted antibiotic resistance in 814 isolates from  ill people and 38 isolates from food, animals, or the environment. A total of 187 isolates had predicted antibiotic resistance or decreased susceptibility to one or more of the following antibiotics: amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (5% of 187 isolates), ampicillin (6%), cefoxitin (5%), ceftriaxone (5%), chloramphenicol (4%), ciprofloxacin (&lt;1%), fosfomycin (7%), gentamicin (2%), kanamycin (1%), nalidixic acid (&lt;1%), streptomycin (6%), sulfamethoxazole (6%), tetracycline (4%), and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (&lt;1%). There was no antibiotic resistance predicted for 665 (78%) isolates. Testing of 52 clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory provided comparable results (fosfomycin and kanamycin were not tested by this method). If antibiotics are needed, some infections related to these outbreaks may be difficult to treat with some commonly recommended antibiotics and may require a different antibiotic choice., In interviews, ill people answered questions about animal contact in the week before they became ill. Of 619 people interviewed, 392 (63%) reported contact with backyard poultry before becoming ill. Ill people reported buying poultry from various sources, including agricultural stores, websites, and hatcheries. Six of the outbreak strains that made people sick were identified in samples collected from poultry., As of October 22, 2019, these outbreak investigations are over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '47370e0f158af5bc2b019ad277c9e9fde9982769d57b75d5277993e30b249bea', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna| April 2019 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 5, 22, 2, 18, 57, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/newport-04-19/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted May 22, 2019 at 11:00 AM ET, This outbreak appears to be over, but recalled frozen tuna may still be in freezers. People could get sick if restaurants and retailers who are unaware of the recall continue to serve and sell sushi made with recalled frozen tuna. Check the U.S. Food and Drug Administration website for the list of recalled productsexternal icon., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Newport infections linked to frozen, raw ground tuna supplied by Jensen Tuna and sourced from JK Fish of Vietnam., , Restaurants and retailers should not sell or serve recalled frozen, ground tuna from Jensen Tuna., , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)external icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Newport infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on bacteria isolated from ill people showed that they were closely related genetically. This means that ill people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of May 20, 2019, 15 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Newport were reported from eight states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each is on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 8, 2019 to March 31, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from 24 to 85 years, with a median age of 40. Fifty-three percent were female.  Of 11 people with available information, 2 (18%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis did not identify antibiotic resistance in 11 bacterial isolates from ill people. Testing of three outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory confirmed these results., Epidemiologic and traceback evidence indicated that frozen, raw ground tuna supplied by Jensen Tuna Inc. in Houma, La., was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Nine (75%) of 12 people interviewed reported eating sushi from a restaurant or grocery store. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey pdf icon[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people in which 5% reported eating sushi, sashimi, or ceviche made with raw fish or shellfish in the week before they were interviewed. Of the nine people with information about their sushi exposure, all nine (100%) reported eating a sushi item containing raw tuna or raw “spicy tuna.”, The FDA and regulatory officials in several states traced the source of the raw tuna used by restaurants where ill people ate sushi. The traceback evidence indicated that the restaurants used frozen ground tuna supplied by Jensen Tuna., On April 15, 2019, Jensen Tuna voluntarily recalledexternal icon frozen ground tuna products that may be contaminated with Salmonella Newport., As of May 22, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'cf5a2f83aa96735209dfa0d9bca38704310c595d7328106e2ba2c9ed95f695b1', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melons  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon | April 2019 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 5, 24, 3, 13, 59, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/carrau-04-19/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, May 24, 2019 at 1:45 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and retailers choose and handle fruit safely to help prevent foodborne illness. Wash hands and food preparation surfaces before and after handling fruit. Refrigerate pre-cut fruit at 40°F or colder., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Carrau infections linked to pre-cut melons supplied by Caito Foods LLC., , CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and retailers always choose and handle fruit safely to help prevent foodborne illness., Contact a healthcare provider if you have:, Retailers and restaurants should always choose and handle fruit safely to help prevent foodborne illness., , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Carrau infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS showed that isolates from ill people were closely relatedly genetically. This means that ill people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of May 24, 2019, 137 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Carrau were reported from 10 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 3, 2019, to May 1, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from less than one to 98 years, with a median age of 53. Among ill people, 63% were female. Of 104 people with information available, 38 (37%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis did not identify antibiotic resistance in 76 bacterial isolates from ill people. Testing of outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway., Epidemiologic and traceback evidence indicated that pre-cut melon supplied by Caito Foods LLC of Indianapolis, Ind., was the likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Fifty-three (64%) of 83 people interviewed reported eating pre-cut melons purchased at grocery stores, including pre-cut cantaloupe, watermelon, honeydew, or a fruit salad mix or fruit tray with melon. Five additional people reported eating pre-cut melon outside the home., Information collected from stores where ill people shopped indicated that Caito Foods LLC supplied pre-cut melon to these stores. On April 12, 2019, Caito Foods, Inc. recalledexternal icon pre-cut watermelon, honeydew melon, cantaloupe, and pre-cut fruit medley products containing one of these melons produced at the Caito Foods LLC facility in Indianapolis, Ind., As of May 24, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'c96759e7b768a98c311379ef6dce32c97558668c360e4c734fea023f941f98b2', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Butterball Brand Ground Turkey  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Butterball Ground Turkey | March 2019 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 5, 7, 4, 10, 43, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/schwarzengrund-03-19/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, May 7, 2019 at 2:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. People should always handle and cook turkey safely. Get CDC’s tips to prevent foodborne illness from turkey., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Serviceexternal icon (USDA-FSIS) investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Schwarzengrund infections linked to ground turkey products produced by Butterball, LLC., , , , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS)external icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Schwarzengrund infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on bacteria isolated from ill people showed that they were closely related genetically. This means that ill people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of May 7, 2019, a total of 7 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Schwarzengrund were reported from 3 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from December 19, 2018, to March 16, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from less than one year to 71, with a median age of 46. Eighty-six percent were female. One (14%) person was hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Whole genome sequencing (WGS) analysis of 5 isolates from ill people and 4 isolates from turkey predicted antibiotic resistance to ampicillin (n=2), gentamicin (n=2), streptomycin (n=2), sulfisoxazole (n=9), and tetracycline (n=9). One additional clinical isolate had no resistance. Testing of 2 outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory confirmed these results. This resistance likely will not affect the choice of antibiotic used to treat most people., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that ground turkey produced by Butterball, LLC in Mount Olive, North Carolina was the likely source of this outbreak., Health officials collected information about the foods ill people ate and other exposures they had in the week before they became ill. Five (71%) of 7 ill people either lived in a residence where ground turkey was served, or reported eating ground turkey at home., Health officials in Wisconsinexternal icon collected records and unopened ground turkey from a residence where four of the ill people live. Records indicated that the turkey used at the residence was Butterball brand ground turkey., The outbreak strain of Salmonella Schwarzengrund was identified in samples of the ground turkey collected from the residence where four ill people live. These results provided more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating ground turkey products produced by Butterball, LLC., On March 13, 2019, Butterball, LLC recalledexternal icon approximately 78,164 pounds of ground turkey products that may be contaminated with Salmonella Schwarzengrund., As of May 7, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '0fe2dbc67e9d0e7f38831e0a395dda14a2d379be06ba0b57a6efcb2e19c3997b', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogs  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Pet Hedgehogs | January 2019 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 10, 11, 2, 16, 6, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/typhimurium-01-19/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted October 2, 2019 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. CDC and public health officials in several states investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella infections linked to contact with pet hedgehogs. Hedgehogs can carry Salmonella even when they look healthy and clean. Pet hedgehog owners can take steps to reduce the chance that they or their children get an infection., , , Hedgehogs can carry Salmonella germs in their droppings while appearing healthy and clean. These germs can easily spread to their bodies, habitats, toys, bedding, and anything in the area where they live. People can get sick after they touch hedgehogs or anything in their habitats., People who own or come in contact with hedgehogs can take steps to stay healthy around their pet:, , CDC and public health officials in several states investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to contact with pet hedgehogs., A total of 54 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from 23 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the map of reported cases page., Illnesses started on dates from October 22, 2018, to August 21, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from 2 to 95 years, with a median age of 18 years. Sixty-seven percent were female. Of 30 people with information available, 8 (24%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Whole genome sequencing (WGS) was performed on 59 isolates from 42 ill people and 17 hedgehogs. Analysis of WGS did not predict antibiotic resistance in isolates from 41 people and 17 hedgehogs. One isolate from one ill person had predicted resistance to ampicillin. Testing of 11 clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) showed no resistance. If antibiotics are needed, this resistance profile should not affect the choice of antibiotic used to treat most people., In interviews, ill people answered questions about animal contact in the week before they became ill. Of 37 people interviewed, 31 (84%) reported contact with hedgehogs before becoming ill. Ill people reported buying hedgehogs from various sources, including pet stores, breeders, or online., The outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium was identified in samples collected from 11 hedgehogs in Minnesota and Oregon, including hedgehogs from the homes of six ill people. The outbreak strain was also identified in two samples collected from hedgehog habitats in Michigan. A single, common source of hedgehogs was not identified., Regardless of where hedgehogs are purchased, they can carry Salmonella germs that can make people sick. People who own or come in contact with hedgehogs can take steps to stay healthy around their pet., As of October 2, 2019, this investigation is over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '6b7829a9e6e7d2bfd9d5c5a91522945acc2312446b0b6e8eeb09572e3220fae6', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Multidrug-Resistant Salmonella Infections Linked to Raw Turkey Products  | Multidrug-Resistant Salmonella Infections Linked to Raw Turkey Products | July 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 4, 30, 2, 44, 33, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/reading-07-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, April 30, 2019 at 11:30 AM ET, This is the final update for this outbreak investigation. The number of reported new illnesses has decreased, but people could continue to get sick. People can get a Salmonella infection from eating undercooked turkey or touching raw turkey, including packaged raw pet food. Always cook turkey thoroughly. Get CDC’s tips to prevent foodborne illness from turkey. CDC continues to monitor the PulseNet database for illnesses and work with states to interview ill people. CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) continues to analyze Salmonella isolates for patterns of antibiotic resistance., , CDC, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS), and public health and regulatory officials in several states investigated a multistate outbreak of multidrug-resistant Salmonella infections linked to raw turkey products. CDC will continue to monitor for reports of ill people because this Salmonella strain is present in the turkey industry., , , Always handle raw turkey carefully and cook it thoroughly to prevent food poisoning. Raw turkey products can have germs that spread around food preparation areas and can make you sick., With the exception of the recalledexternal icon turkey products, CDC is not advising that consumers avoid eating properly cooked turkey products, or that retailers stop selling raw turkey products., CDC advises consumers to follow these steps to help prevent Salmonella infection from raw turkey:, Do not eat, sell, or serve recalled turkey products:, Ground Turkey, Pet Food, , CDC, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS), and public health and regulatory officials in several states investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Reading infections linked to raw turkey products., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting was performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on Salmonella from ill people in this outbreak showed that they are closely related genetically. This means that the ill people were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of April 22, 2019, a total of 358 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Reading were reported from 42 states and the District of Columbia. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates from November 20, 2017, to March 31, 2019 . Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 101, with a median age of 42. Forty-eight percent of ill people were female. Of 302 people with information available, 133 (44%) were hospitalized. One death was reported from California., Predicted antibiotic resistance based on whole genome sequencing (WGS) was determined for 487 isolates. There was no antibiotic resistance predicted for 173 (36%) isolates from 86 ill people and 87 food, animal, and environmental samples. The remaining 314 isolates (180 from ill people and 134 from food, animal, and environmental samples) contained genes for resistance or decreased susceptibility to some or all of the following antibiotics: ampicillin (52% of all 487 isolates), streptomycin (32%), sulfamethoxazole (31%), tetracycline (32%), kanamycin (3.4%), gentamicin (0.6%), nalidixic acid (0.4%), ciprofloxacin (0.4%), trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (0.4%), and fosfomycin (0.2%). Testing of 20 outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory confirmed these results (fosfomycin and kanamycin were not tested by this method). Most (99%) of the human infections in this outbreak were susceptible to the antibiotics that are commonly used for treatment when susceptibility results are not available. These results mean that this resistance likely will not affect the choice of antibiotics used for treatment., State and local health departments interviewed ill people about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 200 ill people interviewed, 130 (65%) reported preparing or eating turkey products that were purchased raw, including ground turkey, turkey pieces, and whole turkeys. Ill people reported buying many different brands of raw turkey products from multiple stores. Also, 4 of the 200 ill people interviewed became sick after pets in their home ate raw ground turkey pet foodexternal icon. Five of the 200 ill people interviewed worked in a facility that raises or processes turkeys, or lived with someone who did. In February 2019, 47 people became ill after eating turkey that was not handled properly at an event in Iowa., Public health officials in Arizona and Michigan collected unopened Jennie-O brand ground turkey from the homes of ill people. Officials in Minnesota also collected raw turkey pet food that was served to pets in ill people’s homes. The outbreak strain of Salmonella Reading was identified in samples of the ground turkey and the raw turkey pet food. WGS showed that Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people, from ground turkey, and from raw turkey pet food were all closely related genetically. These results provided more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating or handling turkey products., Several Jennie-O brand ground turkey products were recalled in November and December 2018. Raws for Paws recalled raw turkey pet food in February 2018, and Woody’s Pet Food Deli recalled raw turkey pet food in January 2019., The outbreak strain was also identified in samples from raw turkey products from 24 slaughter and 14 processing establishments. The samples collected by FSIS at these slaughter and processing establishments were part of FSIS’s routine testing under the Salmonella performance standards. Furthermore, WGS showed that the Salmonella strain isolated from these samples is closely related genetically to the Salmonella strain from ill people., Available data indicate that this strain of Salmonella Reading is present in live turkeys and in raw turkey products. A single, common supplier of raw turkey products or of live turkeys was not identified that could account for the whole outbreak., This is the final update for this outbreak investigation. The number of reported new illnesses has decreased, but people could continue to get sick. CDC continues to monitor the PulseNet database for illnesses and work with states to interview ill people. CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) continues to analyze Salmonella isolates for patterns of antibiotic resistance. CDC will provide updates in the future if there is an increase in newly reported cases., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'cc5fdf90b8f7f3422cae0347c1b5a6a97605df4454d85d97d9d7b36c3a614438', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Tahini from Achdut Ltd.  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Tahini from Achdut Ltd. | November 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 2, 27, 8, 7, 56, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/concord-11-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted February 27, 2019 at 3:45 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over, but recalled tahini products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat these products and potentially get sick. Visit the FDA websiteExternal for a full list of recalled products., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Concord infections linked to tahini products produced by Achdut Ltd. , , , , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Concord infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on bacteria isolated from ill people showed that they were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of February 27, 2019, eight people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Concord were reported from four states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from April 21, 2018 to January 3, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from 14 to 52 years, with a median age of 29. Sixty-three percent of ill people were male. No hospitalizations or deaths were reported., Whole genome sequencing analysis did not predict any antibiotic resistance in Salmonella bacteria isolated from seven ill people and four food specimens. Testing of three clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) confirmed these results., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that tahini products from Achdut Ltd. were the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of eight people interviewed, six (75%) reported eating or most likely eating tahini or hummus made with tahini. Four ill people ate tahini or hummus made with tahini in Hawaii and New York. Two ill people traveled to other countries where they ate tahini or hummus made with tahini., Investigators with the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene collected records and food samples at a restaurant where ill people ate. The outbreak strain was isolated in samples of tahini. Records indicated that the tahini used at the restaurant was Achva brand tahini manufactured by Achdut Ltd., FDA identified Salmonella Concord in a sample of tahini collected at the point of import. The tahini was Baron’s brand manufactured by Achdut Ltd., Whole genome sequencing results showed that the Salmonella strain identified in imported tahini was closely related genetically to the Salmonella strain identified in ill people and from tahini samples collected at a restaurant where ill people ate. These results provide more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating tahini products from Achdut Ltd., On November 27, 2018, Achdut Ltd. recalled tahini products because they might have been contaminated with Salmonella. The FDA website has a list of the tahini productsExternal that were recalled., As of February 27, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '4969c11dc0842176b0896d8714e76ba4f66b733cf954d31ddf4058394c920c21', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Multidrug-Resistant Salmonella Infections Linked to Raw Chicken Products  | Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Raw Chicken Products | October 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 2, 21, 10, 7, 41, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/infantis-10-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted February 21, 2019 at 3:00 PM ET, This investigation is over. Illnesses could continue because this Salmonella strain appears to be widespread in the chicken industry. People can get a Salmonella infection from eating undercooked chicken or touching raw chicken, including packaged raw pet food. Always cook chicken thoroughly. Get CDC’s tips to prevent foodborne illness from chicken., , CDC and public health and regulatory officials in several states investigated a multistate outbreak of multidrug-resistant Salmonella infections linked to raw chicken products. The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) monitored the outbreak., , , Always handle raw chicken carefully and cook it thoroughly to prevent food poisoning. This outbreak is a reminder that raw chicken can have germs that can spread around your kitchen and make you sick. Although the outbreak investigation is over, the outbreak strain appears to be widespread in chicken and people may continue to get sick., CDC is not advising that consumers avoid eating properly cooked chicken, or that retailers stop selling raw chicken products., Follow these steps to help prevent Salmonella or other foodborne infections from chicken:, , CDC and public health and regulatory officials in several states investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Infantis infections linked to raw chicken products. The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) monitored the outbreak., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting was performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on Salmonella bacteria from ill people in this outbreak showed that they were closely related genetically. This means that the ill people were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of February 19, 2019, 129 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis were reported from 32 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started from January 8, 2018, to January 27, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 105, with a median age of 42. Sixty-nine percent of ill people were female. Of 85 people with information available, 25 (29%) were hospitalized. One death was reported from New York., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 69 people interviewed, 60 people (87%) reported preparing or eating chicken products that were purchased raw, including ground chicken, chicken pieces, and whole chicken. Ill people reported buying many different brands of raw chicken products from multiple stores. One person got sick after pets in their home ate raw ground chicken pet foodExternal. Two ill people lived with someone who works in a facility that raises or processes chickens., The outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis has been identified in samples from raw chicken products from 76 slaughter and/or processing establishments, from raw chicken pet food, and from live chickens. Samples collected at slaughter and processing establishments were collected as part of FSIS’s routine testing under the Salmonella performance standards. WGS showed that the Salmonella strain from these samples was closely related genetically to the Salmonella from ill people.  This result provided more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from handling or eating raw or undercooked chicken., WGS analysis of Salmonella bacteria isolated from 97 ill people and 139 food or environmental samples predicted resistance to some or all of the following antibiotics: ampicillin, ceftriaxone, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, fosfomycin, gentamicin, hygromycin, kanamycin, nalidixic acid, streptomycin, sulfamethoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Four non-clinical isolates had no predicted resistance. Testing of seven isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory confirmed these results (fosfomycin, hygromycin, and kanamycin were not tested by this method). These antibiotic-resistant infections may be difficult to treat with commonly recommended antibiotics, and may require a different antibiotic choice. Advice to clinicians is available., Available data indicate that this strain of Salmonella Infantis appears to be present in live chickens and in raw chicken products. A single, common supplier of raw chicken products or of live chickens was not identified., CDC and USDA-FSIS are actively engaging with representatives from the chicken industry to explore ways to reduce Salmonella Infantis in chicken products. Because investigation results suggest this strain of Salmonella Infantis is present in both live chickens and in raw chicken products, further investigation and interventions to reduce the prevalence of this strain should target both the live chicken industry and chicken processing facilities. Consumers should be aware that raw chicken may be contaminated with harmful germs. Always follow food safety steps to prevent foodborne infection from these products., As of February 21, 2019, this investigation is over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '1a9e5db14b9a1c48dcad62f53b594abb13c986ed4b1663343f2dd7b089f4e829', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Ground Beef  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Ground Beef | October 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 3, 22, 6, 44, 18, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/newport-10-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted March 22, 2019 at 3:15 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. Consumers and restaurants should always handle and cook ground beef safely to help prevent foodborne illness., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection ServiceExternal investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Newport infections linked to ground beef produced by JBS Tolleson, Inc., , , , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS)External investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Newport infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting was performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on bacteria isolated from ill people showed that they were closely relatedly genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of March 21, 2019, 403 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Newport were reported from 30 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from August 5, 2018 to February 8, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from less than one year to 99, with a median age of 42. Forty-nine percent were male. Of 340 people with information available, 117 (34%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Whole genome sequencing analysis did not identify predicted antibiotic resistance in 403 Salmonella bacteria isolates from 398 ill people and five food samples. Testing of 17 outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory confirmed these results., State and local health departments asked ill people questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 277 people interviewed, 237 (86%) reported eating ground beef at home. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people in which 40% of respondents reported eating any ground beef at home in the week before they were interviewed. Also, several unrelated ill people ate ground beef at the same events or purchased ground beef at the same grocery store chains, suggesting that the contaminated food item was served or sold at those locations., Officials in Arizona and Nevada collected opened and unopened packages of ground beef from ill people’s homes. Officials also collected unopened packages of ground beef from retail locations. The outbreak strain of Salmonella Newport was identified in the ground beef. Whole genome sequencing showed that the Salmonella identified in the ground beef was closely related genetically to the Salmonella in samples from ill people. USDA-FSIS and state partners traced the source of the ground beef eaten by ill people in this outbreak to JBS Tolleson, Inc., On October 4, 2018, JBS Tolleson, Inc. recalledExternal approximately 6.5 million pounds of beef products that may be contaminated with Salmonella Newport. On December 4, 2018, JBS Tolleson, Inc. recalledExternal an additional 5.2 million pounds of beef products., As of March 22, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '6812acbf2ef38b3f30c06c81abc2db32cf9bbe07392e5e476f2aee5ef8b8c71d', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections  | Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Agbeni Infections | November 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 2, 4, 5, 29, 9, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/agbeni-11-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted January 14, 2019 at 12:30 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. Check the FDA website for a list of recalled cake mixExternal. In general, CDC advises against eating any raw dough or batter, whether homemade or from a mix. Raw batter can contain germs that could make you sick., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Agbeni infections., , , In general, CDC advises against eating any raw dough or batter, whether homemade or from a mix. Raw batter can contain germs that could make you sick., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Agbeni infections., On November 5, 2018, ConAgra Brands recalledExternal four varieties of Duncan Hines cake mix after health officials in Oregon identified Salmonella Agbeni in a box of Duncan Hines Classic White Cake Mix. CDC reviewed the PulseNet database and identified seven infections with the same strain of Salmonella Agbeni reported from five states. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. Whole genome sequencing (DNA fingerprinting) performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people in this outbreak showed that the bacteria were closely related genetically. This means that the ill people were more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates from June 13, 2018, to October 5, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from 26 to 72 years, with a median age of 33. Seventy-one percent were female. No hospitalizations or deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Three ill people were interviewed. Two ill people reported eating cake in the week before their illness began and one reported eating raw cake mix, but brand information was not available. CDC worked with state health departments and FDA to collect more information, but the investigation was not able to determine if these ill people ate cake or raw cake mix produced by Duncan Hines., Whole genome sequencing analysis did not identify predicted antibiotic resistance in six bacterial isolates:  five isolates from ill people and one from food. One isolate from an ill person contained a gene for resistance to tetracycline. Antibiotic resistance testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System laboratory is underway., As of January 14, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over. Sometimes outbreaks end before enough information is available to identify the likely source. Officials thoroughly investigate each outbreak, and they are continually working to develop new ways to investigate and solve outbreaks faster., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'b9df3e082dc6ff373105fd981c1e0554e90c2036daeece8e1794607986181694', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Gravel Ridge Farms Shell Eggs - Final Update  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Gravel Ridge Farms Shell Eggs | September 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 2, 4, 5, 32, 50, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/enteritidis-09-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted October 25, 2018 at 4:15 PM ET, CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to shell eggs from Gravel Ridge Farms., , , , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting was performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on bacteria isolated from ill people showed that they were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of October 24, 2018, 44 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis were reported from 11 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2018 to August 26, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from one year to 94, with a median age of 32. Sixty percent of ill people were female. Of 37 people with information available, 12 (32%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis did not predict antibiotic resistance in bacteria isolated from 25 ill people and 1 food sample. Testing of three clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory also did not show antibiotic resistance., Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory evidence indicated that shell eggs from Gravel Ridge Farms were the likely source of this outbreak., State and local health officials interviewed ill people and asked questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Twenty-six (81%) of 32 people interviewed reported eating restaurant dishes made with eggs. This percentage was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people in which 38% of respondents reported eating any eggs away from home in the week before they were interviewed. These restaurants reported using shell eggs in the dishes eaten by ill people., FDA and state partners traced the source of the shell eggs supplied to these restaurants. Gravel Ridge Farms in Cullman, Alabama, supplied shell eggs to restaurants where 20 of the 26 ill people ate eggs. Several ill people lived in states where Gravel Ridge Farms shell eggs were not sold, but most traveled to states where they were sold in the week before their illness began., The outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis was identified in environmental samples from Gravel Ridge Farms. Officials in Alabama also collected eggs from the Gravel Ridge Farms facility for testing. The outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis was identified in these eggs. WGS results showed that the Salmonella bacteria from the environmental samples and from Gravel Ridge Farms eggs were closely related genetically to the Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people. These results provided more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating shell eggs from Gravel Ridge Farms., On September 8, 2018, Gravel Ridge Farms recalledExternal cage-free large eggs with use by dates of July 25, 2018 through October 3, 2018 because they might have been contaminated with Salmonella bacteria., This outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '706a975f98d7d9af5cbcc35d8054e720029369d6f3872a9862a8faacc36516bc', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Chicken (Final Update)  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Chicken | August 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 2, 4, 5, 35, 19, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/chicken-08-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted December 7, 2018 at 4:00 PM ET, CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS)External investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella infections linked to kosher chicken. , , , , Always handle raw chicken carefully and cook it thoroughly to prevent food poisoning. This outbreak was a reminder that raw chicken products can have germs that spread around food preparation areas and can make you sick., CDC is not advising that people avoid eating kosher chicken or Empire Kosher brand chicken., CDC advises consumers to follow these steps to help prevent Salmonella infection from raw chicken:, , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS)External investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- infections linked to kosher chicken., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting was performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on Salmonella bacteria from ill people in this outbreak showed that these Salmonella strains are closely related genetically. This means that the ill people were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of December 4, 2018, a total of 25 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- were reported from six states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates from September 25, 2017, to August 13, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from less than one year to 76, with a median age of 16. Fifty percent of ill people are female. Of 22 people with information available, 11 (50%) were hospitalized, including a death reported from New York., WGS analysis did not predict any antibiotic resistance in Salmonella bacteria isolated from 21 ill people and 6 chicken samples. Testing of 6 clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory also showed no resistance., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 20 people interviewed, 20 (100%) reported eating chicken products. Of 12 people who reported brand information, 10 (83%) reported specifically eating Empire Kosher brand chicken., The outbreak strain of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- was identified in samples from raw chicken collected at two facilities, including one that processes Empire Kosher brand chicken. The samples collected by USDA-FSIS at the slaughter and processing establishment were part of USDA-FSIS’ routine testing under the Salmonella performance standards. WGS showed that the Salmonella strain from these samples is closely related genetically to the Salmonella strain from ill people., Available data indicated that some kosher chicken products were contaminated with this strain of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- and made people sick. Consumers should always follow steps to prevent Salmonella infection from these products., As of December 7, 2018, this outbreak investigation is over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'b8710156e50a42e5c97c79deb909b98cd229254fe7615752ffff397f9dae18c8', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad - Final Update  | Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Hy-Vee Spring Pasta Salad | July 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 2, 4, 5, 39, 14, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/sandiego-07-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted September 5, 2018 at 4:45 PM ET, CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella infections linked to Spring Pasta Salad purchased at Hy-Vee grocery stores. This outbreak appears to be over., , , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on bacteria from ill people in this outbreak showed that they were closely related genetically. This means they were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of September 5, 2018, 101 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Sandiego (92 people), Salmonella enterica subspecies IIIb (7 people), or both (2 people) were reported from 10 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from June 21, 2018, to August 7, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from 1 year to 89, with a median age of 50. Sixty-one percent were female. Of 95 people with information available, 25 (26%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis did not identify antibiotic resistance in bacteria isolated from 46 ill people. Testing of clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is underway., Epidemiologic evidence indicated that Spring Pasta Salad purchased at Hy-Vee grocery stores was a likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Sixty (76%) of 79 people interviewed reported eating Spring Pasta Salad from Hy-Vee grocery stores in Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Nebraska, and South Dakota. The ill people in North Dakota, Oregon, and Tennessee traveled to states where Hy-Vee grocery stores are located., On July 16, 2018, Hy-Vee, Inc. of West Des Moines, Iowa removed Spring Pasta Salad products from all of its stores. Hy-Vee stores are located in Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, South Dakota and Wisconsin. On July 17, 2018, Hy-Vee, Inc. recalledExternal its Spring Pasta Salad because it might have been contaminated with Salmonella., This outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'f24baacc0b2a797727d3a4e2476859504cd3f86521907d6d5d6e4ce8fc0e1b67', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Mbandaka Infections Linked to Kellogg’s Honey Smacks Cereal (Final Update)  | Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Mbandaka Infections Linked to Honey Smacks Cereal | June 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 23, 42, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/mbandaka-06-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted September 26, 2018 5:00 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. However, recalledExternal Kellogg’s  Honey Smacks cereal has a long shelf life and might still be in people’s homes.  Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat these products and potentially get sick. Read the Recall and Advice to Consumers and Retailers., Important advice for consumers and retailers:, Investigation details:, Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal was the likely source of this multistate outbreak., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Mbandaka infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on bacteria from ill people in this outbreak showed that they were closely related genetically. This means they were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of September 25, 2018, 135 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Mbandaka were reported from 36 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each state can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates from March 3, 2018, to August 29, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from less than one year to 95, with a median age of 57. Sixty-nine percent of ill people were female. Out of 101 people with information available, 34 (34%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis did not predict antibiotic resistance in bacteria isolated from 91 ill people and 8 food and environmental samples. Testing of five clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory also did not show antibiotic resistance., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal was the likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Sixty-three (75%) of 84 people interviewed reported eating Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal. Ill people in this outbreak reported this cereal more often than any other cereals or food items., Health officials in several states collected Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal from retail locations and ill people’s homes for testing. Laboratory testing identified the outbreak strain of Salmonella Mbandaka in a sample of unopened Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal collected from a retail location in California. Laboratory testing also identified the outbreak strain in samples of leftover Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal collected from the homes of ill people in Montana, New York, and Utah. WGS showed that Salmonella bacteria isolated from sick people and the cereal were closely related genetically. This result provides more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating Kellogg’s Honey Smacks., On June 14, 2018, the Kellogg Company recalledExternal all Honey Smacks cereal that were on the market within the cereal’s one-year shelf-life., As of September 26, 2018, this outbreak investigation is over., Since the last update on July 12, 2018, 30 ill people have been added to this investigation., As of August 30, 2018, 130 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Mbandaka have been reported from 36 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each state can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates from March 3, 2018, to August 7, 2018. Ill people range in age from less than one year to 95, with a median age of 57. Of ill people, 69% are female. Out of 98 people with information available, 34 (35%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after August 4, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when their illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people and ask questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. In interviews, 61 (77%) of 79 people specifically reported eating Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal. Ill people in this outbreak reported this cereal more often than any other cereals or food items., The Kellogg Company recalled all Honey Smacks products that were on the market within the cereal’s one-year shelf-life. However, Honey Smacks products with earlier dates could also potentially be contaminated. People who recently became ill report eating Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal that they had in their homes. Do not eat Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal of any size package or with any “best if used by” date., If you see Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal available for sale, do not buy it. Retailers should not sell or serve any Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal., CDC will provide updates when more information is available., Since the last update on June 14, 2018, 27 ill people have been added to this investigation., As of July 12, 2018, 100 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Mbandaka have been reported from 33 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates from March 3, 2018, to July 2, 2018. Ill people range in age from less than one year to 95, with a median age of 57. Of ill people, 68% are female. Out of 77 people with information available, 30 (39%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after June 19, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when their illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people and ask questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Fifty-five (85%) of 65 people interviewed reported eating cold cereal. In interviews, 43 people specifically reported eating Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal. Ill people in this outbreak reported this cereal more often than any other cereals or food items., Health officials in several states collected Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal from retail locations and ill people’s homes for testing. Laboratory testing identified the outbreak strain of Salmonella Mbandaka in a sample of unopened Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal collected from a retail location in California. Laboratory testing also identified the outbreak strain in samples of leftover Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal collected from the homes of ill people in Montana, New York, and Utah., The Kellogg Company recalled all Honey Smacks products that were on the market within the cereal’s one-year shelf-life. However, Honey Smacks products with earlier dates could also potentially be contaminated. Do not eat Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal of any size package or with any “best if used by” date., CDC will provide updates when more information is available. , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal are investigating a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Mbandaka infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., As of June 14, 2018, 73 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Mbandaka have been reported from 31 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates from March 3, 2018, to May 28, 2018. Ill people range in age from less than one year to 87, with a median age of 58. Sixty-five percent are female. Out of 55 people with information available, 24 (44%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 22, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic evidence indicates that Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal is a likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Thirty (77%) of 39 people interviewed reported eating cold cereal. In interviews, 14 people specifically reported eating Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal. Ill people in this outbreak reported this cereal more often than any other cereals or food items., On June 14, 2018, the Kellogg Company recalledExternal packages of Kellogg’s Honey Smacks cereal., CDC will provide updates when more information is available., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '9d7488629379f7c2e03de0db6ccf6e7674148a191c0db6304b8b555e6438d695', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Adelaide Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon (Final Update)  | Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Adelaide Infections Linked to Pre-Cut Melon | June 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 23, 25, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/adelaide-06-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted July 26, 2018 11:30 AM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and retailers choose and handle fruit safely to help prevent foodborne illness. Wash hands and food preparation surfaces before and after preparing fruit. Refrigerate precut fruit at 40°F or colder., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Adelaide infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., As of July 24, 2018, 77 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Adelaide were reported from nine states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from April 30, 2018, to July 2, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 97, with a median age of 67. Among ill people, 67% were female. Out of 70 people with information available, 36 (51%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Whole genome sequencing analysis did not identify any predicted antibiotic resistance in isolates from 57 ill people. Testing of 3 clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory also did not show any antibiotic resistance., Epidemiologic and traceback evidence indicated that pre-cut melon supplied by the Caito Foods, LLC of Indianapolis, Indiana was the likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Thirty-six (64%) of 56 people interviewed reported eating pre-cut melon purchased from grocery stores, including cantaloupe, watermelon, or a fruit salad mix with melon. Twelve other people reported eating melon, but did not specify whether it was pre-cut., Information collected from stores where ill people shopped indicated that Caito Foods, LLC supplied pre-cut melon to these stores. On June 8, 2018, Caito Foods, LLC recalledExternal fresh-cut watermelon, honeydew melon, cantaloupe, and fresh-cut fruit medley products containing one of these melons that were produced at the Caito Foods facility in Indianapolis, Indiana., As of July 26, 2018, this outbreak appears to be over., , Since the last update on June 8, 2018, 10 more ill people were added to this outbreak., As of June 18, 2018, 70 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Adelaide have been reported from seven states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from April 30, 2018, to June 3, 2018. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 97, with a median age of 67. Sixty-seven percent are female. Out of 63 people with information available, 34 (54%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 28, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal are investigating a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Adelaide infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., As of June 7, 2018, 60 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Adelaide have been reported from five states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from April 30, 2018, to May 28, 2018. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 97, with a median age of 67. Sixty-five percent are female. Out of 47 people with information available, 31 (66%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 20, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic and preliminary traceback evidence indicates that pre-cut melon supplied by the Caito Foods, LLC of Indianapolis, Indiana is a likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Twenty-five (64%) of 39 people interviewed reported eating pre-cut melon purchased from grocery stores, including cantaloupe, watermelon, or a fruit salad mix with melon. An additional seven people reported consuming melons but did not specify if it was pre-cut., Information collected from stores where ill people shopped indicates that Caito Foods, LLC supplied pre-cut melon to these stores. On June 8, 2018, Caito Foods, LLC recalledExternal fresh cut watermelon, honeydew melon, cantaloupe, and fresh-cut fruit medley products containing one of these melons produced at the Caito Foods facility in Indianapolis, Indiana., CDC will provide updates when more information is available., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'a2d31a056f26c76ce179c09fce8c78fe614ce861271416ca8f75c167155e71f9', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreaks of Salmonella Infections Linked to Contact with Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2018 (Final Update)  | Multistate Outbreaks of Human Salmonella Infections Linked to Contact with Backyard Flocks | June 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 2, 4, 5, 35, 47, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/backyard-flocks-06-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted September 13, 2018 at 11:00 AM ET, These outbreak investigations are over. However, people can still get a Salmonella infection from live poultry, including those in backyard flocks. Read more information about Salmonella from live poultry and how people can reduce the chance they or their children will get an infection., , 334Cases, 47States, 56Hospitalizations, 0Deaths, Mail-order hatcheries should provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers before they buy any birds (see example below). This should include information about preventing Salmonella infections from contact with live poultry., Mail-order hatcheries should put interventions in place to help prevent contamination and infection of poultry with Salmonella:, Mail-order hatcheries should participate in the voluntary USDA-NPIP U.S. Salmonella Monitored Program Cdc-pdf[PDF – 279 KB]External, in which mail-order hatcheries certify their flocks are monitored for Salmonella bacteria that may cause illness in humans. The intent of this program is to reduce the incidence of Salmonella in day-old poultry in the hatchery and give the poultry industry a better opportunity to reduce the incidence of Salmonella in their products., Agricultural feed stores should take steps to prevent Salmonella infections from contact with live poultry:, 212Cases, 44States, 34Hospitalizations, 0Deaths, Read more about ways to stay healthy with backyard flocks. Read live poultry Q&amp;A., , Seventy outbreaks of Salmonella infections have been linked to contact with backyard flocks since 2000 Cdc-pdf[PDF – 887 KB]., , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '7ac989527e9b8ec67d54926e5fbe60636635d80a999316361f4e8aa6e553878d', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Braenderup Infections Linked to Rose Acre Farms Shell Eggs (Final Update)  | Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Braenderup Infections Linked to Rose Acre Farms Shell Eggs | April 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 22, 57, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/braenderup-04-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted July 26, 2018 11:30 AM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. Consumers and restaurants should always handle and cook eggs safely to avoid foodborne illness from raw eggs. Wash hands and items that came into contact with raw eggs with soap and water., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Braenderup infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., As of June 13, 2018, 45 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup were reported from 10 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from November 16, 2017 to May 13, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from 1 to 90, with a median age of 60. Fifty-six percent were female. Eleven people were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., Testing of 3 clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory did not show any resistance. Whole genome sequencing of 27 clinical and 7 environmental isolates also did not predict resistance to antibiotics on the NARMS panel., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicated that shell eggs produced by Rose Acre Farms’ Hyde County, North Carolina farm were the likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Thirty (83%) of 36 people interviewed reported eating shell eggs. Nineteen (53%) reported eating various egg dishes at different restaurants. This latter percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people in which 38% of respondents reported eating any eggs away from home in the week before they were interviewed. These restaurants reported using shell eggs in the dishes eaten by ill people., FDA traced the source of some of the shell eggs supplied to these restaurant locations to Rose Acre Farms’ Hyde County, North Carolina farm. FDA investigators inspected the farm and collected samples for testing. Laboratory testing identified the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup in environmental samples taken at the farm., On April 13, 2018, Rose Acre Farms of Seymour, Indiana, voluntarily recalledExternal 206,749,248 shell eggs because they could have been contaminated with Salmonella bacteria. Recalled eggs were sold in grocery stores and to restaurants in Colorado, Florida, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia under multiple brand names, including Coburn Farms, Country Daybreak, Crystal Farms, Food Lion, Glenview, Great Value, Nelms, and Sunshine Farms. On April 16, 2018, Cal-Maine Foods, Inc. voluntarily recalled 23,400 dozen eggs purchased from Rose Acre Farms., As of June 14, 2018, this outbreak appears to be over., , Since the last update on April 16, 2018, 12 more ill people were added to this outbreak., As of May 10, 2018, 35 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup have been reported from 9 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from November 16, 2017 to April 14, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 90 years, with a median age of 65. Fifty percent of ill people are female. Of 28 people with information available, 11 (39%) have been hospitalized and no deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after March 23, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with Salmonella and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to four weeks., WGS analysis did not identify antibiotic resistance in bacteria isolated from 22 ill people. Testing of three clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory also did not show any resistance., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures they had before they became ill. Twenty-two (88%) of 25 people interviewed reported eating shell eggs. Sixteen (64%) reported eating various egg dishes at different restaurants. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a surveyCdc-pdf[787 KB of healthy people in which 38% of respondents reported eating any eggs away from home in the week before they were interviewed. These restaurants reported using shell eggs in the dishes eaten by ill people., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) are investigating a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Braenderup infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., As of April 16, 2018, 23 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup have been reported from 9 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. WGS performed on bacteria isolated from ill people showed that they were closely relatedly genetically. This means that people in this outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from November 16, 2017, to March 22, 2018. Ill people range in age from 5 to 90, with a median age of 65. Fifty-five percent are male. Six people have been hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve, or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after February 25, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to four weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., WGS analysis did not predict antibiotic resistance in isolates from 14 ill people. Standard antibiotic resistance testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicates that shell eggs produced by Rose Acre Farms are the likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Seventeen (100%) of 17 people interviewed reported eating shell eggs. Eleven (65%) reported eating various egg dishes at different restaurants. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[787 KB] of healthy people in which 38% of respondents reported eating any eggs away from home in the week before they were interviewed. These restaurants reported using shell eggs in the dishes eaten by ill people., FDA traced the source of some of the shell eggs supplied to these restaurant locations to Rose Acre Farms’ Hyde County, North Carolina farm. FDA investigators inspected the farm and collected samples for testing. Laboratory testing identified the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup in environmental samples taken at the farm., On April 13, 2018, Rose Acre Farms of Seymour, Indiana, voluntarily recalledExternal 206,749,248 shell eggs because they could be contaminated with Salmonella bacteria. Recalled eggs were sold in grocery stores and to restaurants in Colorado, Florida, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia under multiple brand names, including Coburn Farms, Country Daybreak, Crystal Farms, Food Lion, Glenview, Great Value, Nelms, and Sunshine Farms., This investigation is ongoing and we will provide updates when they are available., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '2102f6923aa778434d475e59e5cfae6947131889e97b9264eb46c3d4c7e0c3af', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium Infections Linked to Dried Coconut | March 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 22, 37, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/typhimurium-03-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted May 18, 2018 4:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, recalled dried coconut products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat these products and potentially get sick. Read the Recall and Advice to Consumers and Retailers., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. Fourteen people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from eight states and the District of Columbia. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) performed on bacteria isolated from ill people showed that they were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from September 22, 2017 to February 26, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from 1 to 73 years, with a median age of 38. Among ill people, 62% were female. Three hospitalizations were reported. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis did not identify antibiotic resistance in 12 of 13 isolates from ill people. One isolate contained resistance genes for ampicillin and azithromycin. Testing of outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory revealed two isolates with no antibiotic resistance and one isolate with resistance to streptomycin., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicated that dried coconut was the likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Eight (80%) of ten people interviewed reported eating dried coconut from grocery stores. Of the eight people who reported eating dried coconut, four people purchased the product at different Natural Grocers store locations., FDA and state health and regulatory officials collected leftover dried coconut from ill people’s homes, as well as dried coconut from Natural Grocers store locations where ill people shopped and from the Natural Grocers’ Distribution Center. FDA testing identified the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium in an unopened sample of Natural Grocers Coconut Smiles Organic collected from Natural Grocers. The outbreak strain was also identified in an opened, leftover sample of Natural Grocers Coconut Smiles Organic collected from an ill person’s home., FDA also collected dried coconut from International Harvest, Inc. The outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium was identified in samples of International Harvest Brand Organic Go Smile! Dried Coconut Raw and Go Smiles Dried Coconut Raw., WGS results showed that the Salmonella from dried coconut was closely related genetically to the Salmonella from ill people. This result provided more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating contaminated dried coconut., On March 16, 2018, International Harvest, Inc. recalledExternal bags of Organic Go Smile! Raw Coconut and bulk packages of Go Smiles Dried Coconut Raw. The recalled Organic Go Smile! Raw Coconut was sold online and in stores in 9-ounce bags with sell-by dates from January 1, 2018 through March 1, 2019. Recalled bulk Go Smiles Dried Coconut Raw was sold in a 25-pound case labeled with batch/lot numbers OCSM-0010, OCSM-0011, and OCSM-0014. These products were sold in various grocery stores. The list of locations and cities where recalled bulk dried coconut was sold is available on the FDA websiteExternal., On March 19, 2018, Vitamin Cottage Natural Food Markets, Inc. recalledExternal packages of Natural Grocers Coconut Smiles Organic labeled with barcode 8034810 and packed-on numbers lower than 18-075. Recalled Natural Grocers Coconut Smiles Organic were sold in 10-ounce clear plastic bags with the Natural Grocers label. The packed-on number can be found in the bottom left-hand corner of the label., People should not eat recalled International Harvest, Inc. brand Organic Go Smile! Raw Coconut, Go Smiles Dried Coconut Raw, or recalled Natural Grocers Coconut Smiles Organic products. Throw it away or return it to the place of purchase for a refund. Retailers should not sell or serve recalled dried coconut products., As of May 18, 2018, this outbreak appears to be over., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) are investigating a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., As of March 20, 2018, 13 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 8 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. WGS performed on bacteria isolated from ill people showed that they were closely relatedly genetically. This means that people in this outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from September 22, 2017 to February 26, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 73 years, with a median age of 40. Sixty-seven percent are female. Three hospitalizations have been reported. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve, or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after January 25, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., WGS analysis did not identify predicted antibiotic resistance in 10 of 11 isolates from ill people. One isolate contained resistance genes for ampicillin and azithromycin. Testing of outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory revealed two isolates with no antimicrobial resistance and one isolate with resistance to streptomycin. This resistance is unlikely to affect the choice of antibiotic used to treat most people, but some infections may be difficult to treat with antibiotics usually prescribed and may require a different antibiotic., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicates that dried coconut is the likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Seven (88%) of eight people interviewed reported eating dried coconut from grocery stores. Of the seven people who reported eating dried coconut, four people purchased the product at different Natural Grocers store locations. Public health officials continue to interview ill people to learn more about what they ate in the week before becoming sick., FDA and state health and regulatory officials collected leftover dried coconut from ill people’s homes, as well as dried coconut from Natural Grocers store locations where ill people shopped and from the Natural Grocers’ Distribution Center. FDA testing identified the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium in an unopened sample of Natural Grocers Coconut Smiles Organic collected from Natural Grocers. The outbreak strain was also identified in an opened, leftover sample of Natural Grocers Coconut Smiles Organic collected from an ill person’s home., FDA also collected dried coconut from International Harvest, Inc. The outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium was identified in samples of International Harvest Brand Organic Go Smile! Dried Coconut Raw and Go Smiles Dried Coconut Raw., On March 16, 2018, International Harvest, Inc. recalledExternal bags of Organic Go Smile! Raw Coconut and bulk packages of Go Smiles Dried Coconut Raw. The recalled Organic Go Smile! Raw Coconut was sold online and in stores in 9-ounce bags with sell-by dates from January 1, 2018 through March 1, 2019. Recalled bulk Go Smiles Dried Coconut Raw was sold in a 25-pound case labeled with batch/lot numbers OCSM-0010, OCSM-0011, and OCSM-0014. These products were sold in various grocery stores. Regulatory officials are working to determine where else Organic Go Smile! Raw Coconut and Go Smiles Dried Coconut Raw were sold., On March 19, 2018, Vitamin Cottage Natural Food Markets, Inc. recalledExternal packages of Natural Grocers Coconut Smiles Organic labeled with barcode 8034810 and packed-on numbers lower than 18-075. Recalled Natural Grocers Coconut Smiles Organic were sold in 10-ounce clear plastic bags with the Natural Grocers label. The packed-on number can be found in the bottom left-hand corner of the label., CDC recommends people not eat recalled International Harvest, Inc. brand Organic Go Smile! Raw Coconut, Go Smiles Dried Coconut Raw, or recalled Natural Grocers Coconut Smiles Organic. Throw it away or return it to the place of purchase for a refund. Retailers should not sell or serve recalled dried coconut products., This investigation is ongoing and we will provide updates when more information is available., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '9c7bdc5f4f765921b63b91318763379a9ce424f990e51ff48670d48b7607be45', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs  | Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis Infections Linked to Pet Guinea Pigs | March 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 3, 6, 7, 45, 57, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/guinea-pigs-03-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted March 6, 2019 3:45 PM ET, This outbreak investigation has been completed. People can still get a Salmonella infection from guinea pigs, because these animals can carry the bacteria even when they look healthy and clean. Learn about Salmonella from small mammals and how people can reduce the chance they or their children get an infection., , 9Cases, 8States, 1Hospitalization, 0Deaths, Options for Unwanted Guinea Pigs, Advice to Veterinarians, Advice to Health Care Providers, Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '2913f9fa4dae50cef8ac5154ad29622e37c450c56134c22474c670fe11f56d81', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium Linked to Chicken Salad | February 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 22, 9, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/typhimurium-02-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted April 16, 2018 4:45 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of illness in the United States. For more information about Salmonella and steps that people can take to reduce their risk of infection, visit CDC’s Salmonella webpage., , CDC collaborated with public health and regulatory officials in several state and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting was performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., A total of 265 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from 8 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. WGS performed on bacteria isolated from ill people showed that they were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 8, 2018, to March 20, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 89 years, with a median age of 57. Sixty-seven percent of people were female. Ninety-four hospitalizations were reported, including one person from Iowa who died., WGS analysis did not identify predicted antibiotic resistance in 112 of 127 isolates (110 samples from ill people and 2 from food). Fifteen isolates from ill people contained genes for resistance to all or some of the following antibiotics: amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, ampicillin, cefoxitin, ceftriaxone, gentamicin, streptomycin, sulfamethoxazole, and tetracycline. This resistance is unlikely to affect the treatment of most people, but some infections might be difficult to treat with antibiotics usually prescribed and may require a different antibiotic. Standard antibiotic resistance testing methods were used by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System  laboratory on clinical isolates from three ill people in this outbreak. These isolates were not resistant to any antibiotics tested., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicated that chicken salad produced by Triple T Specialty Meats, Inc. and sold at Fareway grocery stores was the likely source of this multistate outbreak., Public health officials in IowaExternal first detected this outbreak and linked the illnesses to chicken salad sold at Fareway grocery stores. CDC searched the PulseNet database and identified illnesses in other states, and those illnesses were added to this outbreak. In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 222 people interviewed, 194 (87%) reported eating chicken salad purchased from Fareway grocery stores. Triple T Specialty Meats, Inc. produced the chicken salad that ill people reported eating., On February 9, 2018, Fareway stopped selling chicken salad in all of its stores after the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals contacted the company about the illnesses. The Iowa Department of Public Health and the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals issued a consumer advisory on February 13, 2018 warning that chicken salad sold at Fareway may be contaminated with Salmonella., Investigators in Iowa collected chicken salad from two Fareway grocery store locations in Iowa for laboratory testing. An outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium was identified in both samples., On February 21, 2018, Triple T Specialty Meats, Inc. recalledExternal all chicken salad produced from January 2, 2018 to February 7, 2018. The recalled chicken salad was sold in containers of various weights from the deli at Fareway grocery stores in Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota, Nebraska, and South Dakota from January 4, 2018 to February 9, 2018., As of April 6, 2018, this outbreak appears to be over., , 105 more ill people from 6 states were added to this investigation since the last update on February 22, 2018., As of March 6, 2018, 170 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 7 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 8, 2018, to February 18, 2018. Ill people range in age from 7 to 89 years, with a median age of 59. Sixty-six percent of ill people are female. 62 hospitalizations and no deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after February 12, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to four weeks., WGS analysis did not identify predicted antibiotic resistance in 67 of 72 isolates (70 ill people and 2 food samples). Five isolates from ill people contained genes for resistance to all or some of the following antibiotics: amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, ampicillin, cefoxitin, ceftriaxone, gentamicin, streptomycin, sulfamethoxazole, and tetracycline. This resistance is unlikely to affect the treatment of most people, but some infections might be difficult to treat with antibiotics usually prescribed and may require a different antibiotic. Testing of outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods is currently underway in CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 159 people interviewed, 131 (82%) reported eating chicken salad from Fareway stores. Triple T Specialty Meats, Inc. produced the chicken salad that ill people reported eating., It takes an average of two to four weeks from when a person becomes ill with Salmonella to when the illness is reported to CDC or health officials. Because of this reporting lag, the additional 105 people added to this investigation likely became ill from eating chicken salad recalledExternal by Triple T Specialty Meats, Inc. which is no longer available for purchase. The last reported illness began on February 18, 2018., CDC recommends that people do not eat recalled chicken salad. Throw it away or return it to the place of purchase. This investigation is ongoing and we will provide updates when more information is available., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS)External are investigating a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., As of February 21, 2018, 65 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 5 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. WGS performed on bacterial isolates from ill people showed that they were closely relatedly genetically. This means that people in this outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses reported by investigators in Iowa also included ill people who reported eating chicken salad from a Fareway store and who had a diagnostic test showing they were infected with Salmonella bacteria. CDC is not including these people in the outbreak case count until DNA fingerprinting can link their illnesses to the outbreak. Some people may not be included because no bacterial isolates are available for DNA fingerprinting., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 8, 2018 to February 10, 2018. Ill people range in age from 11 to 89 years, with a median age of 57. Forty-two people are female. Twenty-eight hospitalizations have been reported. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve, or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after February 5, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., WGS analysis did not identify predicted antibiotic resistance in 19 isolates from 20 ill people. One isolate contained a gene for resistance to tetracycline, an antibiotic which is not commonly used to treat patients with Salmonella infection. Testing of outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods is currently underway in CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicates that chicken salad produced by Triple T Specialty Meats, Inc. and sold at Fareway grocery stores is the likely source of this multistate outbreak., Public health officials in IowaExternal first detected this outbreak and linked the illnesses to chicken salad sold at Fareway grocery stores. CDC searched the PulseNet database and identified illnesses in other states, and those illnesses have been added to this outbreak. In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Forty-five (78%) of 58 people interviewed reported eating chicken salad from Fareway stores. Triple T Specialty Meats, Inc. produced the chicken salad that ill people reported eating. Public health officials continue to interview ill people in other states to learn more about what they ate in the week before becoming sick., On February 9, 2018, Fareway stopped selling chicken salad in all of its stores after the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals contacted the company about the illnesses. Iowa Department of Public Health and the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals then issued a consumer advisory on February 13, 2018 warning that chicken salad sold at Fareway may be contaminated with Salmonella., Investigators in Iowa collected chicken salad from two Fareway grocery store locations in Iowa for laboratory testing. The outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium was identified in both samples., On February 21, 2018, Triple T Specialty Meats, Inc. recalledExternal all chicken salad produced from January 2, 2018 to February 7, 2018. The recalled chicken salad was sold in containers of various weights from the deli at Fareway grocery stores in Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota, Nebraska, and South Dakota from January 4, 2018 to February 9, 2018. CDC recommends that people do not eat  recalled chicken salad. Throw it away or return it to the place of purchase. This investigation is ongoing and we will provide updates when more information is available., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'ab302a1f338e9e092999364e6340c7abcc1885750380529a6d23cf03d6dff1b1', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- Infections Linked to Kratom Products | February 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 22, 1, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/kratom-02-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted May 24, 2018 4:00 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. People should be aware that kratom could be contaminated with Salmonella and could make people sick. Contaminated products may still be available for purchase because the investigation was not able to identify a single, common source of contaminated kratom. Illnesses could continue to occur if people consume contaminated kratom. Read more on the Recalls and Advice to Consumers webpage., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) investigated this multistate outbreak of Salmonella infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting was performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., As of May 24, 2018, 199 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella were reported from 41 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 11, 2017 to May 8, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 to 75 years, with a median age of 38. Among ill people, 52% were male. Of 132 people with available information, 50 (38%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Whole genome sequencing analysis did not identify any predicted antibiotic resistance in isolates from 111 ill people and 61 kratom samples. Testing of 17 clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory also did not show any antibiotic resistance., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that kratom was the likely source of this multistate outbreak. Kratom is a plant consumed for its stimulant effects and as an opioid substitute., State and local health officials interviewed ill people to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures before they became ill. Seventy-six (74%) of 103 people interviewed reported consuming kratom in pills, powder, or tea. Most people reported consuming the powder form of kratom. People who reported consuming kratom purchased it from retail locations in several states and from various online retailers., This outbreak was detected when a cluster of people infected with Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- was identified by CDC PulseNet. During the investigation, health and regulatory officials in several states and the FDA collected various leftover and unopened kratom products to test for Salmonella contamination. As additional strains of Salmonella were identified in kratom products, a search of the CDC PulseNet database identified ill people infected with some of these strains, including Salmonella Heidelberg, Salmonella Javiana, Salmonella Okatie, Salmonella Weltevreden, and Salmonella Thompson. These ill people were added to the outbreak investigation. Eighty-five different DNA fingerprints of Salmonella bacteria were identified in samples of kratom products. The FDA website has a list of contaminated kratom productsExternal, which were from several retail locations and online retailers. Several companies issued recalls of kratom products. A list of the recalled kratom productsExternal is also available on the FDA website., This outbreak investigation is over. However, some kratom products that were contaminated with Salmonella have not yet been recalled and may still be available for purchase or in people’s homes. People who are at risk of severe Salmonella infection should avoid consuming kratom to prevent infection., , Since the last update on March 15, 2018, 45 more ill people from 19 states were added to this investigation., As of April 5, 2018, a total of 132 people infected with outbreak strains of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- (61), Salmonella Javiana (15), Salmonella Okatie (21), or Salmonella Thompson (35) have been reported from 38 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 11, 2017, to March 20, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 73 years, with a median age of 38. Fifty-four percent of ill people are male. Of 96 people with available information, 38 (40%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after March 14, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with Salmonella and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., Whole genome sequencing analysis did not identify any predicted antibiotic resistance in isolates from 60 ill people and three Kratom samples. Testing of eight clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory also did not show any resistance., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures before they became ill. Fifty-seven (73%) of 78 people interviewed reported consuming kratom in pills, powder, or tea. Most people report consuming the powder form of kratom. People who reported consuming kratom purchased it from retail locations in several states and from various online retailers., Despite the information collected to date about where ill people purchased kratom, a single common brand or supplier of kratom has not been linked to the outbreak. CDC continues to recommend that people not consume kratom in any form because it could be contaminated with Salmonella and could make people sick. This investigation is ongoing and we will provide updates as needed. , , Since the last update on March 2, 2018, 47 more ill people from 25 states were added to this investigation., As of March 14, 2018, a total of 87 people infected with outbreak strains of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- (50), Salmonella Javiana (5), Salmonella Okatie (16), or Salmonella Thompson (16) have been reported from 35 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 21, 2017 to February 24, 2018. Ill people range in age from 6 to 67 years, with a median age of 39. Fifty-five percent of ill people are male. Of 69 people with available information, 27 (39%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after February 20, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with Salmonella and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to four weeks., WGS analysis did not identify any predicted antibiotic resistance in isolates from 47 ill people and two Kratom samples. Testing of four clinical isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory also did not show any resistance., Since the last update on March 2, 2018, investigators identified ill people infected with other types of Salmonella, including Salmonella Okatie, Salmonella Javiana, and Salmonella Thompson. Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence has linked these additional Salmonella illnesses to consuming kratom., Health officials continue to collect various leftover and unopened kratom products to test for Salmonella contamination. Investigators in California collected leftover Phytoextractum brand kratom powder from an ill person in that state. The outbreak strain of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- was identified in this sample. As a result of these findings, PDX Aromatics recalledExternal kratom powder sold online between January 18, 2018 and February 18, 2018., Investigators in Oregon and Utah collected kratom powder from retail locations and online retailers where ill people reported purchasing kratom. Outbreak strains of Salmonella Okatie and Salmonella Thompson were identified in these samples. No brand information was available for the kratom products collected in Oregon. The ill person in Utah purchased kratom powder from the website kratoma.com., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures before they became ill. Forty (73%) of 55 people interviewed reported consuming kratom in pills, powder, or tea. Most people report consuming the powder form of kratom. People who reported consuming kratom purchased it from retail locations in several states and from various online retailers., Despite the information collected to date about where ill people purchased kratom, a single common brand or supplier of kratom has not been linked to the outbreak. At this time, CDC recommends that people not consume any brand of kratom in any form because it could be contaminated with Salmonella and could make people sick. This investigation is ongoing and we will provide updates as needed., , Twelve more ill people from seven states were added to this investigation since the last update on February 20, 2018., As of February 28, 2018, 40 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- have been reported from 27 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from October 10, 2017 to February 13, 2018. Ill people range in age from 6 to 67 years, with a median age of 41. Sixty percent of ill people are male. Of 31 people with available information, 14 (45%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after February 6, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to four weeks., Whole genome sequencing (WGS) analysis did not identify any predicted antibiotic resistance in bacteria isolated from five ill people. Testing of one clinical isolate using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory did not show any resistance., Health officials are collecting various leftover and unopened kratom products to test for Salmonella contamination. The North Dakota Cdc-pdf[PDF – 2 pages]External and UtahExternal departments of health collected leftover kratom powder from ill people in their states. The outbreak strain of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- was identified in both samples. The ill person in North Dakota purchased S.K. Herbalist brand kratom powder from the website soapkorner.com. The ill person in Utah purchased kratom powder from the website kratoma.com., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures before they became ill. Seventeen (71%) of 24 people interviewed reported consuming kratom in pills, powder, or tea. Most people report consuming the powder form of kratom. For the 17 people who reported consuming kratom, 13 remembered where it was purchased. Three people reported purchasing kratom from retail locations in several states and 10 people reported purchasing kratom from various online retailers., Despite the information collected to date about where ill people purchased kratom, a single common brand or supplier of kratom has not been linked to the outbreak. At this time, CDC recommends that people not consume kratom in any form because it could be contaminated with Salmonella and could make people sick. CDC’s recommendation may change as more information becomes available. This investigation is ongoing and we will provide updates as needed., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) are investigating a multistate outbreak of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., As of February 16, 2018, 28 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- have been reported from 20 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. WGS performed on isolates from ill people were closely relatedly genetically. This means that people in this outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from October 13, 2017 to January 30, 2018. Ill people range in age from 6 to 67 years, with a median age of 41. Sixteen people are male. Eleven hospitalizations have been reported. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve, or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after January 23, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., WGS analysis did not identify any predicted antimicrobial resistance in isolates from five ill people. Testing of outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods is currently underway in CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory., Epidemiologic evidence indicates that kratom is a likely source of this multistate outbreak. Kratom is a plant consumed for its stimulant effects and as an opioid substitute. Kratom is also known as Thang, Kakuam, Thom, Ketom, and Biak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the months before they became ill. Eight (73%) of 11 people interviewed reported consuming kratom in pills, powder, or tea. No common brands or suppliers of kratom have been identified at this time., At this time, CDC recommends that people not consume kratom in any form. The investigation indicates that kratom products could be contaminated with Salmonella and could make people sick. CDC’s recommendation may change as more information becomes available. This investigation is ongoing and we will provide updates as needed., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'd04517cc66cde5ccf4fe7606ae1631f3d3243c881c2226d0c4fd12147e823c78', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Montevideo Infections Linked to Raw Sprouts | January 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 21, 51, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/montevideo-01-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted February 28, 2018 4:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. Regardless of where they are served or sold, raw and lightly cooked sprouts are a known source of foodborne illness. CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and other retailers always follow food safety practices to avoid illness from eating sprouts., , February 28, 2018, CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Montevideo infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting was performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., As of February 27, 2018, 10 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Montevideo were reported from 3 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. WGS showed that isolates from ill people were closely relatedly genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from December 20, 2017 to January 28, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from 26 to 56, with a median age of 42. All 10 (100%) were female. No hospitalizations and no deaths were reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve, or epi curve., Testing of outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory revealed one isolate with no antibiotic resistance and one isolate with resistance to streptomycin, an antibiotic which is not commonly used to treat patients with Salmonella infections., Epidemiologic evidence indicated that raw sprouts were the likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Eight (80%) of ten people interviewed reported eating at multiple Jimmy John’s restaurant locations. Of these eight people, all eight (100%) reported eating raw sprouts on a sandwich from Jimmy John’s in Illinois and Wisconsin. This proportion is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy people, in which 3% reported eating sprouts on a sandwich in the week before they were interviewed. Two ill people in Wisconsin ate at a single Jimmy John’s location in that state. One ill person reported eating raw sprouts purchased from a grocery store in Minnesota., This outbreak appears to be over. Any contaminated sprouts that made people sick in this outbreak would now be older than their recommended shelf life. FDA and state, and local regulatory officials conducted traceback investigations to help determine the source of the sprouts and their distribution chain. To date, no contamination source has been identified., Regardless of where they are served or sold, raw and lightly cooked sprouts are a known source of foodborne illnessExternal and outbreaks. People who choose to eat sprouts should cook them thoroughly to reduce the risk of illness., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External are investigating a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Montevideo infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., As of January 18, 2018, eight people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Montevideo have been reported from three states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from December 20, 2017 to January 3, 2018. Ill people range in age from 26 to 50, with a median age of 34. All 8 (100%) are female. No hospitalizations and no deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve, or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after December 29, 2017, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2  to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic evidence indicates that raw sprouts served at Jimmy John’s restaurants are a likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Seven (88%) of eight people interviewed reported eating at multiple Jimmy John’s restaurant locations. Of these seven people, all seven (100%) reported eating raw sprouts on a sandwich from Jimmy John’s in Illinois and Wisconsin. This proportion is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy people, in which 3% reported eating sprouts on a sandwich in the week before they were interviewed. Two ill people in Wisconsin ate at a single Jimmy John’s location in that state., Federal, state, and local health and regulatory officials are conducting traceback investigations from the six Jimmy John’s locations where ill people ate raw sprouts. These investigations are ongoing to determine where the sprouts were distributed, and to learn more about the potential route of contamination., The information available to date indicates that raw sprouts served at Jimmy John’s restaurants in Illinois and Wisconsin may be contaminated with Salmonella Montevideo and are not safe to eat. CDC recommends that consumers not eat raw sprouts served at Jimmy John’s restaurants in Illinois and Wisconsin. Jimmy John’s announced on January 19, 2018, that it had directed all of its locations chain-wide to temporarily stop serving sprouts. Regardless of where they are served, raw and lightly cooked sprouts are a known source of foodborne illnessExternal and outbreaks. People who choose to eat sprouts should cook them thoroughly to reduce the risk of illness., This investigation is ongoing and we will provide updates when they are available. Antibiotic susceptibility testing is underway and results will be available soon., , Photo of clover sprouts., , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'b78620e294188e20999a5bc2a07ac63b0eaa9497a9e918cedf08d95a152bb891', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Coconut Tree Brand Frozen Shredded Coconut | January 2018 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 21, 29, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/coconut-01-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted February 15, 2018 2:45PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, the recalled shredded coconut has a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the product and potentially get sick. Read the Recall and Advice to Consumers and Retailers., , February 15, 2018, CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting was performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., As of February 12, 2018, 27 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- (26 people) or Salmonella Newport (1 person) were reported from 9 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. An ill person infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- was also reported from Canada., WGS showed that isolates from people infected with Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- were closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 9, 2017, to November 4, 2017. Ill people ranged in age from 1 to 82 years, with a median age of 15. Among ill people, 19 (70%) are male. Six people (29%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve, or epi curve., WGS analysis did not identify any predicted antimicrobial resistance in isolates from 15 ill people. Standard antibiotic resistance testing methods were used by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS)  laboratory on clinical isolates from 3 ill people in this outbreak. These isolates were not resistant to any antibiotics tested., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicated that Coconut Tree Brand Frozen Shredded Coconut was the likely source of this multistate outbreak. This outbreak appears to be over., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Ten (63%) of 16 people interviewed reported eating or maybe eating coconut. Of these 10 people, 8 (80%) reported having an Asian-style dessert drink that contained frozen shredded coconut., Throughout the outbreak investigation, state and local health officials collected different food items from restaurants where ill people consumed Asian-style dessert drinks. In November 2017, laboratory testing of a sample from coconut milk made in one restaurant in New York did not identify the outbreak strain of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:-, but did identify a strain of Salmonella Newport. This sample was from coconut milk made with Coconut Tree Brand frozen Shredded Coconut, as well as other ingredients. WGS showed that the Salmonella Newport isolated from the coconut milk was closely related genetically to a Salmonella Newport isolate from an ill person from Massachusetts who had consumed an Asian-style dessert drink., In December 2017, officials in MassachusettsExternal collected food items from a restaurant where that ill person had consumed Asian-style dessert drinks. One sample from frozen shredded coconut identified a strain of Salmonella that was new to the PulseNet database and has not been previously linked to any illnesses. This sample was from an unopened package of Coconut Tree Brand Frozen Shredded Coconut. As a result, on January 3, 2018, Evershing International Trading Company recalledExternal all Coconut Tree Brand Frozen Shredded Coconut. The recalled product was packaged in 16-ounce plastic bags., Officials in Massachusetts returned to the restaurant and collected more Coconut Tree Brand frozen Shredded Coconut in January 2018. These samples were from unopened packages of Coconut Tree Brand frozen Shredded Coconut already subject to recall. On January 12, laboratory testing of these samples identified the outbreak strain and another strain of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:-, as well as several other types of Salmonella bacteria, including Salmonella Javiana, Salmonella Rissen, and Salmonella Thompson. WGS showed that the additional strain of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- isolated from the frozen shredded coconut was closely related genetically to Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- isolated from two ill people., The frozen shredded coconut linked to this outbreak was used as an ingredient in Asian-style dessert drinks served at restaurants. The product was also sold in grocery stores and markets in several statesExternal. Frozen shredded coconut can last for several months if kept frozen and may still be in retail stores or in people’s homes., CDC recommends that retailers not sell, restaurants not serve, and consumers not eat recalled Coconut Tree Brand frozen Shredded Coconut. This outbreak appears to be over. However, consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the product and get sick., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) are investigating a multistate outbreak of Salmonella infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., As of January 12, 2018, 25 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- (24 people) or Salmonella Newport (1 person) have been reported from 9 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. One more ill person infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- has been reported from Canada., WGS showed that isolates from people infected with Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:- are closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 11, 2017 to November 4, 2017. Ill people range in age from 1 year to 82, with a median age of 19. Among ill people, 19 (76%) are male. Six people (24%) report being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve, or epi curve., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicates that Coconut Tree Brand frozen Shredded Coconut is the likely source of this multistate outbreak. This investigation is ongoing., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Ten (63%) of 16 people interviewed reported eating or maybe eating coconut. Of these 10 people, 8 (80%) reported having an Asian-style dessert drink that contained frozen shredded coconut., Throughout the outbreak investigation, state and local health officials have collected different food items from restaurants where ill people consumed Asian-style dessert drinks. In November 2017, laboratory testing of a sample from coconut milk made in one restaurant in New York did not identify the outbreak strain of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:-, but did identify a strain of Salmonella Newport. This sample was from coconut milk made with Coconut Tree Brand frozen Shredded Coconut, as well as other ingredients. WGS showed that the Salmonella Newport isolated from the coconut milk was closely related genetically to a Salmonella Newport isolate from an ill person from Massachusetts who had consumed an Asian-style dessert drink., In December 2017, officials in MassachusettsExternal collected food items from a restaurant where that ill person had consumed Asian-style dessert drinks. One sample from frozen shredded coconut identified a strain of Salmonella that was new to the PulseNet database and has not been linked to any illnesses. This sample was from an unopened package of Coconut Tree Brand Frozen Shredded Coconut. As a result, on January 3, 2018, Evershing International Trading Company recalledExternal all Coconut Tree Brand Frozen Shredded Coconut. The recalled product was packaged in 16-ounce plastic bags., Officials in Massachusetts returned to the restaurant and collected more Coconut Tree Brand frozen Shredded Coconut in January 2018. On January 12, laboratory testing confirmed that samples from that frozen shredded coconut identified the outbreak strain of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:b:-. Laboratory testing of other samples identified several types of Salmonella bacteria, including Salmonella Javiana, Salmonella Rissen, and Salmonella Thompson. These samples were from unopened packages of Coconut Tree Brand Frozen Shredded Coconut sold before January 3, 2018. CDC is reviewing the PulseNet database to determine if the other Salmonella isolates from the frozen shredded coconut are linked to any illnesses., The frozen shredded coconut linked to this outbreak was used as an ingredient in Asian-style dessert drinks served at restaurants. The product was also sold in grocery stores and markets in several statesExternal. Frozen shredded coconut can last for several months if kept frozen and may still be in retail stores or in people’s homes. CDC recommends that retailers not sell, restaurants not serve, and consumers not eat recalled Coconut Tree Brand frozen Shredded Coconut., This investigation is ongoing and we will provide updates when they are available., , Coconut Tree Brand Frozen Shredded Coconut Package, , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '93a09dc408e709d4817417c0845b2662d4cd45d311785ea67777a28f1dba58fe', 'headline': 'Salmonella Urbana Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas | September 2017 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 21, 4, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/urbana-09-17/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted November 3, 2017 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. This outbreak was one of four separate multistate outbreaks identified in 2017 linked to imported Maradol papayas from four different farms in Mexico. For information on the other outbreaks, please visit the Reports of Salmonella Outbreak Investigations from 2017 webpage., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Urbana infections linked to Maradol papayas from the El Zapotanito farm in La Huerta, Jalisco, Mexico., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. Seven people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Urbana were reported from three states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) showed that isolates from people infected with Salmonella were closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from July 23, 2017 to August 14, 2017. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 57, with a median age of 1. Four (57%) were female. Five (71%) of the seven ill people were of Hispanic ethnicity. Four (57%) of the seven ill people reported being hospitalized. No deaths were reported., WGS identified antimicrobial resistance genes in isolates from two ill people. The presence of these resistance genes correlated with results from standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods used by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory conducted on clinical isolates from three ill people in this outbreak. All three isolates tested were resistant to streptomycin and had intermediate resistance to tetracycline. Antibiotic resistance may limit treatment options and may be associated with increased risk of hospitalization, bloodstream infections, and treatment failures in patients., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that Maradol papayas were the likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Three (60%) of five people interviewed reported eating papayas. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy Hispanic people in which 22% reported eating papayas in the week before they were interviewed during the summer months., As a result of the other outbreak investigations linked to papayas in 2017, FDA increased testing of papayas from Mexico to see if papayas from other farms were contaminated with Salmonella. Through this increased testing, FDA identified Salmonella Urbana on papayas from El Zapotanito in La Huerta, Jalisco, Mexico. Investigators compared pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and WGS results of Salmonella isolates from the papayas to isolates from ill people in the CDC PulseNet database. These results showed the Salmonella Urbana papaya isolate shared the same DNA fingerprint as the Salmonella Urbana isolates from ill people. This result provided more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating contaminated Maradol papayas., FDA reportedExternal that the shipment of contaminated papayas was destroyed and not distributed for sale in the United States. Papayas from El Zapotanito farm were distributed in the United States earlier in the summer, but FDA reported that no shipments of papayas from the farm were on the market in the United States when the outbreak was identified because they were past their shelf life., This outbreak appears to be over. This outbreak was one of four separate multistate outbreaks identified in 2017 linked to imported Maradol papayas from Mexico. For information on the other outbreaks, please visit the Reports of Salmonella Outbreak Investigations from 2017 webpage., , This outbreak is one of four separate outbreaks currently under investigation that are linked to imported Maradol papayas from Mexico., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External are investigating a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Urbana infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., Since the last update on September 1, 2017, one more ill person from one state was added to this investigation., As of September 11, 2017, seven people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Urbana have been reported from three states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from July 23, 2017 to August 14, 2017. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 57, with a median age of 1. Four (57%) are female. Among 6 people, 5 (83%) are of Hispanic ethnicity. Among 6 people with available information, 4 (67%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Three (75%) of four people interviewed reported eating papayas. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy Hispanic people in which 22% reported eating papayas in the week before they were interviewed during the summer months., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after August 15, 2017, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., As a result of this summer’s outbreak investigation linked to papayas, FDA has increased testing of papayas from Mexico to see if papayas from other farms are contaminated with Salmonella. Through this increased testing, FDA identified Salmonella Urbana on papayas from El Zapotanito in La Huerta, Mexico. Investigators compared PFGE and WGS results of Salmonella isolates from the papayas to isolates from ill people in the CDC PulseNet database. These results showed the Salmonella Urbana papaya isolate shared the same DNA fingerprint as the Salmonella Urbana isolates from ill people. This result provides more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating contaminated Maradol papayas., FDA reportsExternal that the shipment of papayas found to be contaminated was destroyed and was not distributed for sale in the United States. Papayas from El Zapotanito farm were distributed in the United States earlier this year, but FDA reports that no shipments of papayas from the farm are on the market in the United States because they are past their shelf life., Because four separate outbreaks linked to papayas from different farms have been identified, CDC is concerned that papayas from other farms in Mexico might be contaminated with Salmonella and have made people sick. FDA continues testing papayas from Mexico to see if papayas from other farms are contaminated with Salmonella., Investigations are ongoing to determine if additional consumer warnings are needed beyond the advice not to eat papayas from the specific farm given in this update, and from specific farms given in web postings about the other Salmonella outbreaks linked to Maradol papayas. CDC will provide updates when more information is available., , Maradol Papaya: Maradol papayas are a large, oval fruit that weighs 3 or more pounds, with green skins that turn yellow when the fruit is ripe. The flesh inside the fruit is salmon-colored., , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '715a8e1ec318afdf7d35acb0aed2b1ee8d9489d783e0217dae8175f5a619b47a', 'headline': 'Brote multiestatal de infecciones por Salmonella Urbana asociado a papayas maradol importadas | Septiembre 2017 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 43, 49, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/urbana-09-17/es/index.html', 'main_text': '3 de noviembre de 2017, Todo parece indicar que el brote se acabó. Este fue uno de los cuatro brotes multiestatales separados que fueron identificados en el 2017 y que estuvieron vinculados con papayas maradol importadas de cuatro granjas diferentes de México. Para obtener información sobre los otros brotes, visite la página web Informes de las investigaciones sobre los brotes de Salmonella del 2017., La mayoría de las personas infectadas por Salmonella presentan los siguientes signos y síntomas entre 12 y 72 horas después de haber estado expuestas a la bacteria:, Obtenga más información sobre la Salmonella y las medidas que las personas pueden tomar para reducir su riesgo de infección por Salmonella en la página web de los CDC sobre Salmonella., Papaya maradol: La papaya de la variedad maradol es una fruta ovalada y de gran tamaño, cuyo peso es de 3 libras o más. Su cáscara es verde y se vuelve amarilla cuando la fruta madura. Adentro de la fruta, la pulpa es de color salmón., , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '6ffba3b8fb1403318d2eb2f5a7e5088f34e5958f47de7014abafc5bb34f4f30b', 'headline': 'Salmonella Newport and Salmonella Infantis Infections Linked to Imported Maradol Papayas | September 2017 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 21, 17, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/newport-09-17/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted November 3, 2017 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. This outbreak was one of four separate multistate outbreaks identified in 2017 linked to imported Maradol papayas from four different farms in Mexico. For information on the other outbreaks, please visit the Reports of Salmonella Outbreak Investigations from 2017 webpage., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Newport and Salmonella Infantis infections linked to imported Maradol papayas from the Rancho El Ganadero farm in Colima, Mexico that were distributed by Caraveo Produce in Colima, Mexico., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. Four people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Newport (three) and Salmonella Infantis (one) were reported from four states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) showed that isolates from people infected with Salmonella were closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from July 19, 2017 to August 7, 2017. Ill people ranged in age from 40 to 82, with a median of 63. Two (50%) were female. Two (50%) of the four ill people were of Hispanic ethnicity. Two (50%) of the four ill people were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., WGS did not identify antimicrobial resistance genes in isolates from four ill people and one papaya. Standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods were used by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory on a clinical isolate from one ill person in this outbreak. This isolate also was not resistant to any antibiotics tested., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that imported Maradol papayas from Mexico were the likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. All three (100%) people interviewed reported eating papayas. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy Hispanic people in which 22% reported eating papayas in the week before they were interviewed during the summer months., As a result of this summer’s outbreak investigation linked to papayas, FDA increased testing of papayas from Mexico to see if papayas from other farms were contaminated with Salmonella. Through this increased testing, FDA identified Salmonella Newport and Salmonella Infantis on papayas from Caraveo Produce in Tecomán, Colima, Mexico that were grown by Rancho El Ganadero. Investigators compared pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and WGS results of Salmonella isolates from the papayas to isolates from ill people in the CDC PulseNet database. These results showed the Salmonella Newport and Salmonella Infantis isolates from papayas shared the same DNA fingerprint as the Salmonella isolates from ill people. This result provided more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating contaminated Maradol papayas., FDA reportedExternal that the shipment of contaminated papayas was destroyed and was not distributed for sale in the United States. Papayas from this farm were distributed in the United States earlier in the summer, but FDA reported that no shipments of papayas from this farm were on the market in the United States when the outbreak was identified because the papayas were past their shelf life., This outbreak appears to be over. This outbreak was one of four separate multistate outbreaks identified in 2017 linked to imported Maradol papayas from Mexico. For information on the other outbreaks, please visit the Reports of Salmonella Outbreak Investigations from 2017 webpage., , This outbreak is one of four separate outbreaks currently under investigation that are linked to imported Maradol papayas from Mexico., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External are investigating a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Newport and Salmonella Infantis infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., Since the last update on September 1 2017, one more ill person from one state was added to this investigation., As of September 11, 2017, a total of 4 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Newport (3) and Infantis (1) have been reported from 4 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from July 19, 2017 to August 7, 2017. Ill people range in age from 40 to 82 years, with a median age of 63. Two (50%) are female. Two (50%) of the four ill people are of Hispanic ethnicity. Two (50%) of the four ill people have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. All three (100%) people interviewed reported eating papayas. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy Hispanic people in which 22% reported eating papayas in the week before they were interviewed during the summer months., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after August 18, 2017 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., As a result of this summer’s outbreak investigation linked to papayas, FDA has increased testing of papayas from Mexico to see if papayas from other farms are contaminated with Salmonella. Through this increased testing, FDA identified Salmonella Newport and Salmonella Infantis on papayas from Caraveo Produce in Tecomán, Mexico that were grown by Rancho El Ganadero. Investigators compared PFGE and WGS results of Salmonella isolates from the papayas to isolates from ill people in the CDC PulseNet database. These results showed the Salmonella Newport and Salmonella Infantis isolates from papayas shared the same DNA fingerprint as the Salmonella isolates from ill people. This result provides more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating contaminated Maradol papayas., FDA reportsExternal that the shipment of papayas found to be contaminated was destroyed and was not distributed for sale in the United States. Papayas from this farm were distributed in the United States earlier this year, but FDA reports that no shipments of papayas from this farm are on the market in the United States because they are past their shelf life., Because four separate outbreaks linked to papayas from different farms have been identified, CDC is concerned that papayas from other farms in Mexico might be contaminated with Salmonella and have made people sick. FDA continues testing papayas from Mexico to see if papayas from other farms are contaminated with Salmonella., Investigations are ongoing to determine if additional consumer warnings are needed beyond the advice not to eat papayas from the specific farm given in this update, and from specific farms given in web postings about the other Salmonella outbreaks linked to Maradol papayas. CDC will provide updates when more information is available., , Maradol Papaya: Maradol papayas are a large, oval fruit that weighs 3 or more pounds, with green skins that turn yellow when the fruit is ripe. The flesh inside the fruit is salmon-colored., , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '0fa16e995d67afd13dfb50249d0770da4eea67c680e700f7e73e0c19bdfe9168', 'headline': 'Brote multiestatal de infecciones por Salmonella NewPort y Salmonella Infantis asociado a papayas maradol importadas | Septiembre 2017 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 44, 16, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/newport-09-17/es/index.html', 'main_text': '3 de noviembre de 2017, Todo parece indicar que el brote se acabó. Este fue uno de los cuatro brotes multiestatales separados que fueron identificados en el 2017 y que estuvieron vinculados con papayas maradol importadas de cuatro granjas diferentes de México. Para obtener información sobre los otros brotes, visite la página web Informes de las investigaciones sobre los brotes de Salmonella del 2017., La mayoría de las personas infectadas por Salmonella presentan los siguientes signos y síntomas entre 12 y 72 horas después de haber estado expuestas a la bacteria:, Obtenga más información sobre la Salmonella y las medidas que las personas pueden tomar para reducir su riesgo de infección por Salmonella en la página web de los CDC sobre Salmonella., Papaya maradol: La papaya de la variedad maradol es una fruta ovalada y de gran tamaño, cuyo peso es de 3 libras o más. Su cáscara es verde y se vuelve amarilla cuando la fruta madura. Adentro de la fruta, la pulpa es de color salmón., , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '5498bcf589aac1a051635457a53164e0a72aea0f0c4865666cf3d86b44fb320a', 'headline': 'Salmonella Anatum Infections Linked to Maradol Papayas | September 2017 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 20, 55, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/anatum-9-17/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted November 3, 2017 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. This outbreak was one of  four separate multistate outbreaks identified in 2017 linked to imported  Maradol papayas from four different farms in Mexico. For information on the  other outbreaks, please visit the Reports  of Salmonella Outbreak Investigations  from 2017 webpage., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Anatum infections linked to Maradol papayas imported from Mexico by Bravo Produce Inc. of San Ysidro, California., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. Twenty people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Anatum were reported from three states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) showed that isolates from people infected with Salmonella were closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from December 20, 2016, to August 16, 2017. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 89, with a median age of 43. Among ill people, 85% were female. Among 11 people with available information, 10 (91%) were of Hispanic ethnicity. Among those 11 people, five (45%) were hospitalized. One death was reported from California., Antibiotic susceptibility testing was performed by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory on clinical isolates from four ill people in this outbreak. All four isolates did not show resistance to any of the antibiotics tested. In addition, WGS did not identify any antimicrobial resistance genes in isolates from 14 ill people. These findings are consistent with results from standard antibiotic susceptibility testing., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that Maradol papayas imported from Mexico were the likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Ten (91%) of 11 people interviewed reported eating papayas. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy Hispanic people in which 22% reported eating papayas in the week before they were interviewed. Five of these 10 people reported buying papayas from the same grocery store chain., Although the epidemiologic information indicated that papayas were the likely source of this outbreak in spring of 2017, investigators could not determine the specific source of contaminated papayas and the outbreak investigation ended after illnesses stopped., On September 4, 2017, FDA informed CDC that Salmonella Anatum was identified in an imported papaya sample. This sample came from a papaya from the farm Productores y Exportadores de Carica Papaya de Tecomán y Costa Alegre in Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico. WGS showed that the isolate from the papaya was closely related to isolates from 14 people infected with Salmonella Anatum in spring of 2017. Bravo Produce Inc. was a supplier of Maradol papayas to the grocery store chain where five of 10 ill people reported buying papayas., After receiving FDA’s Salmonella isolate from papayas in September, CDC reviewed the PulseNet database to look for matching DNA fingerprints in bacteria from people who got sick more recently after the investigation closed in the spring of 2017. Six more ill people were identified and WGS showed that the Salmonella Anatum isolates from the papayas were closely related to the Salmonella isolates from these ill people., On September 10, 2017, Bravo Produce Inc. recalled Maradol papayas packed by Frutas Selectas de Tijuana, S. de RL de CV. The grower of the recalled Maradol papayas was Productores y Exportadores de Carica Papaya de Tecoman y Costa Alegre in Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico., This outbreak appears to be over. This outbreak was one of four separate multistate outbreaks identified in 2017 linked to imported Maradol papayas from Mexico. For information on the other outbreaks, please visit the Reports of Salmonella Outbreak Investigations from 2017 webpage., , This outbreak is one of four separate outbreaks currently under investigation that are linked to imported Maradol papayas from Mexico., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External are investigating a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Anatum infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., This past spring, CDC investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Anatum infections. Fourteen people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Anatum were reported from three states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. WGS showed that isolates from people infected with Salmonella Anatum were closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship meant that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from December 20, 2016, to April 8, 2017. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 85, with a median age of 38. Ninety-two percent were female. Among 11 people with available information, 10 (91%) were of Hispanic ethnicity. Among those 11 people, 5 (45%) were hospitalized. One death was reported from California., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Seven (88%) of eight people interviewed reported eating papayas. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a surveyCdc-pdf of healthy Hispanic people in which 22% reported eating papayas in the week before they were interviewed. In addition, four of these seven people reported buying papayas from the same grocery store chain., While the epidemiologic information indicated that papayas were the likely source of this outbreak at the time, investigators could not determine the specific source of contaminated papayas and the outbreak investigation ended after illnesses stopped., FDA informed CDC that a sample from an imported papaya identified Salmonella Anatum on September 4, 2017. This sample came from a papaya from a grower in Mexico named Productores y Exportadores de Carica Papaya  de Tecomán y Costa Alegre in Tijuana, Mexico. WGS showed that the isolate from the papaya and the isolates from the 14 people infected with Salmonella Anatum this past spring were closely related. Bravo Produce Inc. was a supplier of Maradol papayas to the grocery store chain where four of seven ill people reported buying papayas. After receiving FDA’s recent Salmonella isolate from papayas, CDC reviewed the PulseNet database to look for matching DNA fingerprints in bacteria from people who got sick after the investigation closed in the spring of 2017. Six more ill people have been identified and CDC is investigating to determine if these more recent illnesses are also linked to Maradol papayas imported by Bravo Produce Inc., On September 10, 2017, Bravo Produce Inc. recalledExternal Maradol papayas packed by Frutas Selectas de Tijuana, S. de RL de CV. The grower of the recalled Maradol papayas is Productores y Exportadores de Carica Papaya de Tecoman y Costa Alegre in Tijuana, Mexico. The papayas were distributed to California from August 10 to August 29, 2017. The recalled papayas can be identified by the label on the fruit from the packing company, Frutas Selectas de Tijuana., This investigation is ongoing. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. FDA continues testing papayas from Mexico to see if other papayas from other farms are contaminated with Salmonella. Investigations are ongoing to determine if additional consumer warnings are needed beyond the advice not to eat papayas from specific importers or farms. Updates will be provided when more information is available., , Maradol Papaya: Maradol papayas are a large, oval fruit that weighs 3 or more pounds, with green skins that turn yellow when the fruit is ripe. The flesh inside the fruit is salmon-colored., , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'cb5e1e32bcf75eb5cf31715a0165240fa6d4118daa27e9e686a799043b66b9fa', 'headline': 'Brote multiestatal de infecciones por Salmonella Anatum asociado a la papaya de la variedad maradol amarilla | Julio 2017 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 43, 24, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/anatum-9-17/es/index.html', 'main_text': '3 de noviembre de 2017, Todo parece indicar que el brote se acabó. Este fue uno de los cuatro brotes multiestatales separados que fueron identificados en el 2017 y que estuvieron vinculados con papayas maradol importadas de cuatro granjas diferentes de México. Para obtener información sobre los otros brotes, visite la página web Informes de las investigaciones sobre los brotes de Salmonella del 2017., La mayoría de las personas infectadas por Salmonella presentan los siguientes signos y síntomas entre 12 y 72 horas después de haber estado expuestas a la bacteria:, Obtenga más información sobre la Salmonella y las medidas que las personas pueden tomar para reducir su riesgo de infección por Salmonella en la página web de los CDC sobre Salmonella., Papaya maradol: La papaya de la variedad maradol es una fruta ovalada y de gran tamaño, cuyo peso es de 3 libras o más. Su cáscara es verde y se vuelve amarilla cuando la fruta madura. Adentro de la fruta, la pulpa es de color salmón., , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '42923be634290f7dc676346dc9c3d7993c85609ebe06d86f8fc4959cd410128d', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Agbeni Infections Linked to Pet Turtles, 2017 (Final Update)  | Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Agbeni Infections Linked to Pet Turtles | August 2017 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 2, 4, 5, 34, 11, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/agbeni-08-17/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted March 13, 2018 2:00 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. Illnesses could continue because people may not know they could get a Salmonella infection from contact with pet turtles. Read the Advice for Pet Owners., , 76Cases, 19States, 30Hospitalizations, 0Deaths, 66Cases, 18States, 23Hospitalizations, 0Deaths, 37Cases, 13States, 16Hospitalizations, 0Deaths, Options for Unwanted Turtles, Advice to Health Care Providers, Advice to Veterinarians, Read our infographic Cdc-pdf[PDF – 1 page] for information about outbreaks of human illness linked to turtles, and more tips on how to stay healthy., ,  ,  , Information for Veterinarians and Health Professionals, Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '22c81df455c0c4c5cc0fd426f5344547ae211b14812d815f0bdf0da3625ac8ce', 'headline': 'Brote multiestatal de infecciones por Salmonella Agbeni asociado a tortugas mascotas, 2017', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 42, 45, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/agbeni-08-17/es/index.html', 'main_text': '16 de marzo de 2018, Esta investigación sobre el brote ha terminado. Podría seguir habiendo casos de enfermedad porque es posible que las personas no sepan que pueden contraer una infección por Salmonella por el contacto con tortugas mascotas. Lea los consejos para los dueños de mascotas., 76casos, 19estados, 30hospitalizaciones, 0muertes, 66casos, 18estados, 23hospitalizaciones, 0muertes, 37casos, 13estados, 16hospitalizaciones, 0muertes, Opciones para las tortugas que no se quieran tener en casa, Vea nuestra infografíaCdc-pdf para obtener información sobre los brotes de enfermedades en seres humanos vinculados a las tortugas, así como más consejos para permanecer sano., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'e5a77fb0f8babc5ebdf70abe05e351655b118da5ca06e924e0f8dd4be06d028e', 'headline': 'Infections Linked to Yellow Maradol Papayas | July 2017 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 20, 41, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/kiambu-07-17/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted November 3, 2017 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. This outbreak was one of four separate multistate outbreaks identified in 2017 linked to imported Maradol papayas from four different farms in Mexico. For information on the other outbreaks, please visit the Reports of Salmonella Outbreak Investigations from 2017 webpage., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External investigated a multistate outbreak of Salmonella infections linked to imported Maradol papayas from the Carica de Campeche farm in Mexico., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. A total of 220 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Thompson (144), Salmonella Kiambu (54), Salmonella Agona (12), Salmonella Gaminara (7), or Salmonella Senftenberg (3) were reported from 23 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) showed that isolates from people infected with Salmonella were closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to October 4, 2017. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 95, with a median age of 40. Among ill people, 62% were female. Among 169 people with available information, 113 (67%) were of Hispanic ethnicity. Among 170 people with available information, 68 (40%) were hospitalized. One death was reported from New York City., WGS did not identify antimicrobial resistance genes among isolates from 139 ill people; one ill person’s isolate, a Salmonella Senftenberg, contained a gene known to decrease susceptibility to ciprofloxacin. Standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods were used by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory on clinical isolates from 10 ill people in this outbreak and no resistance was detected., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that Maradol papayas imported from Mexico were the likely source of this multistate outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 145 people interviewed, 79 (54%) reported eating papayas. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy Hispanic people in which 22% reported eating papayas in the summer months in the week before they were interviewed., The Maryland Department of HealthExternal collected papayas from a grocery store where several ill people reported eating papayas. One sample yielded Salmonella Kiambu and another sample yielded Salmonella Thompson. Both samples were from Caribeña brand Maradol papayas imported from Mexico. WGS showed that the Salmonella Kiambu papaya isolate was closely related genetically to the Salmonella Kiambu isolates from ill people. WGS also showed that the Salmonella Thompson papaya isolate was closely related genetically to Salmonella Thompson isolates from ill people. On July 26, Grande Produce recalledExternal Caribeña brand Maradol papayas that were distributed between July 10 and July 19, 2017., FDAExternal tested other papayas imported from Mexico and isolated several types of Salmonella, including Salmonella Agona, Salmonella Kiambu, Salmonella Gaminara, Salmonella Thompson, and Salmonella Senftenberg. Through this testing, FDA also identified Maradol papayas from the Carica de Campeche papaya farm in Campeche, Mexico as a likely source of the outbreak. Investigators compared pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and WGS results of Salmonella isolates from the papayas to isolates from ill people in the CDC PulseNet database. These results showed the Salmonella isolates from papayas shared the same DNA fingerprint as the Salmonella isolates from ill people. This result provided more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating contaminated Maradol papayas., On August 5, Agroson’s LLC recalledExternal certain Cavi brand Maradol papayas grown and packed by Carica de Campeche. On August 7, Freshtex Produce, LLC recalledExternal Valery brand Maradol papayas grown and packed by Carica de Campeche., This outbreak appears to be over. This outbreak was one of four separate multistate outbreaks identified in 2017 linked to imported Maradol papayas from Mexico. For information on the other outbreaks, please visit the Reports of Salmonella Outbreak Investigations from 2017 webpage., , Since the last update on September 1, 2017, ten more ill people from 7 states were added to this investigation., As of September 11, 2017, a total of 210 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Thompson (135), Salmonella Kiambu (59), Salmonella Agona (10), or Salmonella Gaminara (6) have been reported from 24 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to August 27, 2017. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 95, with a median age of 37. Some information is not available for all of the ill people. Among 205 ill people, 124 (60%) are female. Among 162 people, 109 (67%) are of Hispanic ethnicity. Among 168 people, 67 (40%) have been hospitalized. One death was reported from New York City., Illnesses that occurred after August 11, 2017, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., This investigation is ongoing and CDC will provide updates when more information becomes available., , Since the last update on August 18, 2017, 28 more ill people from 12 states were added to this investigation., As of August 30, 2017, a total of 201 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Thompson (131), Salmonella Kiambu (57), Salmonella Agona (8), or Salmonella Gaminara (5) have been reported from 23 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to August 20, 2017. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 95, with a median age of 37. Some information is not available for all of the ill people. Among 196 ill people, 118 (60%) are female. Among 153 people, 101 (66%) are of Hispanic ethnicity. Among 158 people, 65 (41%) have been hospitalized. One death was reported from New York City., Illnesses that occurred after August 1, 2017, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., As a result of this outbreak investigation, FDA has increased testing of papayas from Mexico to see if papayas from other farms are contaminated with Salmonella. Through this increased testing, FDA identified other types of Salmonella not linked to this outbreak on papayas from Caraveo Produce in Tecomán, Mexico and El Zapotanio in La Huerta, Mexico. FDA reportsExternal that the shipments of papayas found to be contaminated were destroyed and were not distributed for sale in the United States.  Papayas from these farms were distributed in the United States earlier this year, but FDA reports that no shipments of papayas from either farm are on the market in the United States because they are past their shelf life., Through a review of the PulseNet database, CDC identified two more outbreaks of people infected with Salmonella with the same DNA fingerprints as the Salmonella found on papayas from these two other farms. Available information indicates that illnesses in these two outbreaks are not linked to papayas from the Carica de Campeche farm and are being investigated separately. Summaries of the two outbreaks are provided below., Outbreak of Salmonella Newport and Salmonella Infantis Infections, FDA testing identified Salmonella Newport and Salmonella Infantis in an imported papaya sample collected from Caraveo Produce in Tecomán, Mexico. CDC identified three people in the PulseNet database who were infected with the same DNA fingerprint of Salmonella Newport (2 people) or Salmonella Infantis (1 person). The ill people were reported from three states: Illinois, Massachusetts, and Michigan. All three people (100%) reported eating or possibly eating papayas in the week before illness started., Outbreak of Salmonella Urbana Infections, FDA testing identified Salmonella Urbana in an imported papaya sample collected from El Zapotanio in La Huerta, Mexico. CDC identified six people in the PulseNet database who were infected with the same DNA fingerprint of Salmonella Urbana. The ill people were reported from three states: New Jersey (4), New York (1), and Pennsylvania (1). Of four people with information available, three (75%) reported eating or possibly eating papayas in the week before illness started., Because three separate outbreaks linked to papayas from different farms have been identified, CDC is concerned that papayas from several other farms in Mexico might be contaminated with Salmonella and have made people sick. FDA continues testing papayas from Mexico to see if other papayas from other farms are contaminated with Salmonella. Investigations are ongoing to determine if additional consumer warnings are needed beyond the advice not to eat papayas from specific farms that is given in this update. Updates will be provided when more information is available., , Since the last update on August 11, 2017, 34 more ill people were added to this investigation from 11 states., As of August 16, 2017, 173 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Kiambu (51), Salmonella Thompson (111), Salmonella Agona (7), or Salmonella Gaminara (4) have been reported from 21 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to July 31, 2017. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 95, with a median age of 38. Some information is not available for all of the ill people. Among 169 ill people, 101 (60%) are female. Among 135 people, 91 (67%) are of Hispanic ethnicity. Among 136 people, 58 (43%) have been hospitalized. One death was reported from New York City., Illnesses that occurred after July 18, 2017, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., As was reported in the update on August 4, FDAExternal tested other papayas imported from Mexico and isolated several types of Salmonella bacteria, including Salmonella Agona, Salmonella Kiambu, Salmonella Gaminara, Salmonella Thompson, and Salmonella Senftenberg. Investigators compared pulsed-field gel electrophoresis and whole genome sequencing results of Salmonella isolates from the papayas to isolates from ill people in the CDC PulseNet database. CDC has now identified 11 people infected with the same strains of either Salmonella Agona (7) or Salmonella Gaminara (4). These 11 illnesses have been added to the case count for this outbreak. Among 5 for whom information was available, all 5 (100%) reported eating or possibly eating papayas in the week before becoming ill., This investigation is ongoing. Updates will be provided when more information is available., , Since the last update on August 4, 2017, 32 more ill people were added to this investigation from 15 states., As of August 9, 2017, 141 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Kiambu (51) or Salmonella Thompson (90) have been reported from 19 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to July 27, 2017. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 95, with a median age of 39. Among 136 ill people with available information, 83 (61%) are female. Among 98 people with available information, 66 (67%) are of Hispanic ethnicity. Among 103 people with available information, 45 (44%) have been hospitalized. One death was reported from New York City., Illnesses that occurred after July 14, 2017, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., Based on information collected to date, CDC is now recommending that consumers not eat Maradol papayas from the Carica de Campeche farm in Mexico. If consumers aren’t sure if their Maradol papaya came from the Carica de Campeche farm, they should ask the place of purchase. When in doubt, don’t eat it; just throw it out. Restaurants and retailers should not serve or sell Maradol papayas from the Carica de Campeche farm., As was reported in the last update on August 4, FDAExternal tested other papayas imported from Mexico and isolated several types of Salmonella bacteria, including Salmonella Agona, Salmonella Kiambu, Salmonella Gaminara, Salmonella Thompson, and Salmonella Senftenberg. CDC is working to determine if there are any illnesses with these other types of Salmonella linked to this outbreak., This investigation is ongoing. Updates will be provided when more information is available., , Since the last update on July 21, 2017, 64 more ill people were added to this investigation from 15 states., As of August 3, 2017, 109 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Kiambu (48) and Salmonella Thompson (61) have been reported from 16 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to July 22, 2017. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 95, with a median age of 36. Among ill people, 63% are female. Among 74 people with available information, 50 (68%) are of Hispanic ethnicity. Among 76 people with available information, 35 (46%) were  hospitalized. One death was reported from New York City., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after July 10, 2017 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., In ongoing interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 59 interviewed, 28 (47%) reported eating papayas. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy Hispanic people in which 16% reported eating papayas in the months of May and June in the week before they were interviewed., Investigators used whole genome sequencing (WGS) to learn more about the DNA fingerprint of the strains of Salmonella isolated from Maradol papayas that Maryland health officials collected from a grocery store in that state. Samples from these papayas yielded outbreak strains of Salmonella Kiambu and Salmonella Thompson. Both samples were from Caribeña brand Maradol papayas imported from Mexico. Investigators compared WGS results of Salmonella isolates from the papayas to clinical isolates from ill people in the PulseNet database., WGS showed that the Salmonella Kiambu papaya isolate is closely related genetically to Salmonella Kiambu isolates from ill people. WGS also showed that the Salmonella Thompson papaya isolate is closely related genetically to Salmonella Thompson isolates from ill people. This result provides more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating contaminated Maradol papayas imported from Mexico., FDAExternal tested other papayas imported from Mexico and isolated several types of Salmonella, including Salmonella Agona, Salmonella Kiambu, Salmonella Gaminara, Salmonella Thompson, and Salmonella Senftenberg. Through this testing, the FDA has also identified Maradol papayas from the Carica de Campeche papaya farm in Mexico as a likely source of the outbreak., On August 5, Agroson’s LLC recalledExternal certain Cavi brand Maradol papayas grown and packed by Carica de Campeche. The Cavi brand carries a purple, green and black sticker with the words “cavi MEXICO 4395” in white. Only certain lot codes of Cavi brand Maradol papayas were recalled, because they were known to come from Carica de Campeche. Boxes provided to wholesalers are stamped with CARICA DE CAMPECHE on the upper left side of the box. Other Cavi papayas, sourced from other farms, were not recalled., FDA is working to identify other brands of papayas that may have originated from Carica de Campeche and facilitate recalls. More information is available on FDA’s website., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Further investigation by FDA and regulatory officials is under way to determine the point in the supply chain where the papayas were contaminated. Updates will be provided when more information is available., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External are investigating a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Kiambu infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., As of July 21, 2017, 47 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Kiambu have been reported from 12 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. WGS showed that isolates from people infected with Salmonella Kiambu are closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 17, 2017 to June 28, 2017. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 95, with a median age of 27. Among ill people, 67% are female. Among 31 people with available information, 18 (58%) are of Hispanic ethnicity. Among 33 people with available information, 12 (36%) report being hospitalized. One death was reported from New York City., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after June 23, 2017 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence collected to date indicate that Maradol papayas imported from Mexico are a likely source of this multistate outbreak. This investigation is ongoing., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Eleven (44%) of 25 people interviewed reported eating papayas. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy Hispanic people in which 16% reported eating papayas in the months of May and June in the week before they were interviewed., An illness cluster in Maryland was identified. An illness cluster is defined as two or more people who do not live in the same household who report eating at the same restaurant location, attending a common event, or shopping at the same location of a grocery store in the week before becoming ill. In Maryland, several ill people reported eating papayas purchased from the same location of a grocery store. Salmonella Kiambu and Salmonella Thompson were isolated from samples collected from ill people. Investigating illness clusters provides critical clues about the source of an outbreak. If several unrelated ill people ate or shopped at the same location of a restaurant or store within several days of each other, it suggests that the contaminated food item was served or sold there., The Maryland Department of HealthExternal collected papayas from the grocery store associated with the illness cluster to test for Salmonella. One sample yielded the outbreak strain of Salmonella Kiambu and another sample yielded Salmonella Thompson. Both samples were from Caribeña brand Maradol papayas imported from Mexico. WGS showed that the Salmonella Kiambu papaya isolate is closely related genetically to the Salmonella Kiambu isolates from ill people. This result provides more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating contaminated Maradol papayas. CDC is working to collect additional information to determine whether the recent Salmonella Thompson illness in Maryland is part of this multistate outbreak., On July 26, Grande Produce recalledExternal Caribeña brand Maradol papayas that were distributed between July 10 and July 19, 2017. Based on the available evidence, CDC recommends that consumers not eat, restaurants not serve, and retailers not sell Maradol papayas from Mexico until we learn more about other possible brands that might be linked to this outbreak., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Further investigation by FDA and regulatory officials is under way to determine the point in the supply chain where the papayas were contaminated. Updates will be provided when more information is available., , Maradol Papaya: Maradol papayas are a large, oval fruit that weighs 3 or more pounds, with green skins that turn yellow when the fruit is ripe. The flesh inside the fruit is salmon-colored., , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '6d184d95293d9779d72f823f56c8955c95fbd9f08594b660bb7f5f6c3aac9bbf', 'headline': 'Brote multiestatal de infecciones por Salmonella Kiambu asociado a la papaya de la variedad maradol amarilla | Julio 2017 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 42, 10, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/kiambu-07-17/es/index.html', 'main_text': '3 de noviembre de 2017, Todo parece indicar que el brote se acabó. Este fue uno de los cuatro brotes multiestatales separados que fueron identificados en el 2017 y que estuvieron vinculados con papayas maradol importadas de cuatro granjas diferentes de México. Para obtener información sobre los otros brotes, visite la página web Informes de las investigaciones sobre los brotes de Salmonella del 2017., La mayoría de las personas infectadas por Salmonella presentan los siguientes signos y síntomas entre 12 y 72 horas después de haber estado expuestas a la bacteria:, Obtenga más información sobre la Salmonella y las medidas que las personas pueden tomar para reducir su riesgo de infección por Salmonella en la página web de los CDC sobre Salmonella., Papaya maradol: La papaya de la variedad maradol es una fruta ovalada y de gran tamaño, cuyo peso es de 3 libras o más. Su cáscara es verde y se vuelve amarilla cuando la fruta madura. Adentro de la fruta, la pulpa es de color salmón., , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'ae03a084cabb919db16788b94a6a4e9474b0d2228d39e7ea39612680803ce7d4', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium Infections Linked to Exposure to Clinical and Teaching Microbiology Laboratories', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 1, 6, 5, 7, 41, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/typhimurium-07-17/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted July 19, 2017 12:15 PM ET, , CDC and public health officials in several states have identified a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to various clinical, commercial, and college and university teaching microbiology laboratories., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., Twenty-four people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 16 states, including California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, Maine, Michigan, Missouri, North Carolina, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oklahoma, Texas, and Washington. WGS showed that the strain of Salmonella Typhimurium causing illness in this outbreak is closely related genetically to a strain from an outbreak in 2014 and an outbreak in 2011, both of which were linked to microbiology laboratories. As a result of the 2011 outbreak, several laboratory professionals across the country developed a set of guidelines for handling microorganisms safelyexternal icon in a teaching laboratory., Among people for whom information was available, illnesses started on dates ranging from March 17, 2017 to June 22, 2017. Ill people ranged in age from less than one year to 57 years, with a median age of 24. Seventy-five percent of ill people were female. Among 21 people with available information, six (29%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about different exposures in the week before they became ill. Nine (69%) of 13 ill people had laboratory exposures. Ill people in this outbreak reported behaviors while working in the laboratory that could increase the risk of Salmonella infection. These included not wearing gloves or lab coats, not washing hands, and using the same writing utensils and notebooks outside of the laboratory., This outbreak highlights the potential risk of Salmonella infection associated with working in microbiology laboratories., All students and staff in clinical and teaching microbiology laboratories should receive laboratory safety training. Either nonpathogenic or attenuated bacterial strains should be used when possible, especially in teaching laboratories. This practice will help reduce the risk of students and their family members becoming ill. More information is available on the Advice to Students and Employees in Microbiology Laboratories page., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '9ba3495170233d32a9d1591ce087fd38ea0fde261d3f0ddf441d92fcb2438ec4', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreaks of Human Salmonella Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks, 2017 (Final Update)  | Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Due to Live Poultry | June 2017 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 2, 4, 5, 28, 35, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/live-poultry-06-17/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted October 19, 2017 11:00 AM ET, These outbreak investigations are over. However, people can still get a Salmonella infection from live poultry, including those in backyard flocks. Read more information about Salmonella from live poultry and how people can reduce the chance they or their children will get an infection., , 1120Cases, 48States, 249Hospitalizations, 1Death, 961Cases, 48States, 215Hospitalizations, 1Death, 10Outbreaks, 790Cases, 48States, 174Hospitalizations, 8Outbreaks, 372Cases, 47States, 71Hospitalizations, Follow these steps for protecting yourself and others while enjoying your backyard flock:, Mail-order hatcheries should provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers before they buy any birds (see example below). This should include information about preventing Salmonella infections from contact with live poultry., Mail-order hatcheries should put interventions in place to help prevent contamination and infection of poultry with Salmonella:, Mail-order hatcheries should participate in the USDA-NPIP U.S. Salmonella Monitored Program Cdc-pdf[PDF – 17 pages]External, in which voluntary participation by mail-order hatcheries will certify their flocks are monitored for Salmonella bacteria that may cause illness in humans. The intent of this program is to reduce the incidence of Salmonella in day-old poultry in the hatchery and give the poultry industry a better opportunity to reduce the incidence of Salmonella in their products., Agricultural feed stores should take steps to prevent human Salmonella infections from contact with live poultry:, Read more about ways to stay healthy with backyard flocks. Read live poultry Q&amp;A., , Click for a larger view. Cdc-pdf[PDF – 1 page], Information for Feed Stores, Veterinarians and Health Professionals, Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '178646d0a217ec51469941fcf6d0dc503f505e4ba073852847fdb9add650edda', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Multidrug-Resistant Salmonella Heidelberg Infections Linked to Contact with Dairy Calves | November 28 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 2, 4, 5, 31, 49, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/heidelberg-11-16/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted February 16, 2018 1:30 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. Illnesses could continue because people may not know they could get a Salmonella infection from contact with dairy calves or other cattle. Information about how to prevent illness when handling calves and cattle is available for Livestock Handlers., , 56Cases, 15States, 17Hospitalizations, 0Deaths, CDC worked with the Wisconsin Department of Health Services; Wisconsin Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection; Wisconsin Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory; Wisconsin State Laboratory of Hygiene; several other states; and the U.S. Department of Agriculture Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate a multistate outbreak of multidrug-resistant Salmonella Heidelberg infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. Thirty-six people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg were reported from ten states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Among 36 people with available information, illnesses started on dates ranging from January 27, 2015 to January 16, 2017. After the initial announcement on November 28, 2016, investigators identified seven people in four states who were infected with the outbreak strains in 2015. Based on interviews with the ill people and whole genome sequencing (WGS) data, these people were added to the total case count for the outbreak., Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 72, with a median age of 18. Of ill people, 60% were female. Among 31 ill people with available information, 13 (42%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., WGS showed that isolates from ill people were closely related genetically to one another. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory investigations identified sick calves, including dairy bull calves from livestock markets in Wisconsin, as the likely source of most of these infections. Dairy bull calves are young, male cattle that have not been castrated and may be raised for meat. Some calves in this outbreak were also purchased for use with 4-H projects., In interviews, ill people answered questions about any contact with animals and foods eaten in the week before becoming ill. Of the 36 people interviewed, 25 (69%) reported contact with dairy bull calves or other cattle. Some of the ill people interviewed reported that they became sick after their dairy bull calves became sick or died., One ill person’s dairy calves were tested for the presence of Salmonella bacteria. This laboratory testing identified Salmonella Heidelberg. Additionally, environmental samples were collected from a livestock market in Wisconsin, and these samples also identified Salmonella Heidelberg. Further testing using WGS showed that isolates from ill people were closely related genetically to both the isolates from these calves and to the livestock market. This close genetic relationship means that the human infections in this outbreak were likely linked to sick calves., As part of routine surveillance, the Wisconsin State Laboratory of Hygiene, one of seven regional labs affiliated with CDC’s Antibiotic Resistance Laboratory Network, conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates from the ill people associated with this outbreak. These isolates were found to be resistant to multiple antibiotics and shared the same DNA fingerprints, showing the isolates were likely related to one another., WGS identified multiple antimicrobial resistance genes in outbreak-associated isolates from 26 ill people, 43 cattle, and 10 from animal environments. Resistance genes correlated with results from standard antibiotic resistance testing methods used by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory on clinical isolates from five ill people in this outbreak. All five isolates tested were resistant to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, ampicillin, cefoxitin, ceftriaxone, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline, had reduced susceptibility to ciprofloxacin, and were susceptible to azithromycin, gentamicin, and meropenem. Four of the five isolates were also resistant to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and two of these were resistant to chloramphenicol and nalidixic acid. Antibiotic resistance limits treatment options and has been associated with increased risk of hospitalization, bloodstream infections, and treatment failures in patients., Traceback information collected during the outbreak indicated that most of the calves originated in Wisconsin. Multiple farms and animal markets in Wisconsin were identified during the investigation, including one market where environmental samples were collected and demonstrated presence of the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg. Wisconsin health and agriculture officials continue to work with other states to identify other herds that may be affected. They also are identifying ways to work with farms and livestock markets to reduce the risk of Salmonella contamination and infection in dairy calves., This outbreak investigation is over. However, infections in calves continue to be reported and people can still get a Salmonella infection from contact with these livestock. Read more information about Salmonella and livestock and how people can reduce the chance they will get an infection. Livestock owners should continue to monitor for increased morbidity and mortality in dairy calves and consult their veterinarian if noted., , , CDC is working with Wisconsin health, agriculture, and laboratory agencies, several other states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate a multistate outbreak of multidrug-resistant Salmonella Heidelberg infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., Twenty-one people infected with an outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from eight states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Among 19 people with available information, illnesses started on dates ranging from January 11, 2016 to October 24, 2016. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 72, with a median age of 21. Sixty-two percent of ill people are female. Among 19 ill people with available information, 8 (42%) reported being hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., WGS showed that isolates from ill people are closely related genetically to one another. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after October 24, 2016 might not be reported yet because reporting takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory findings have identified dairy bull calves from livestock markets in Wisconsin as the likely source of infections. Dairy bull calves are young, male cattle that have not been castrated and may be raised for meat. Dairy bull calves in this outbreak have also been purchased for use with 4-H projects., In interviews, ill people answered questions about any contact with animals and foods eaten in the week before becoming ill. Of the 19 people interviewed, 15 (79%) reported contact with dairy bull calves or other cattle. Some of the ill people interviewed reported that they became sick after their dairy bull calves became ill or died., One ill person’s dairy calves were tested for the presence of Salmonella bacteria. This laboratory testing identified Salmonella Heidelberg in the calves. Further testing using WGS showed that isolates from ill people are closely related genetically to isolates from these calves. This close genetic relationship means that the human infections in this outbreak are likely linked to ill calves., As part of routine surveillance, the Wisconsin State Laboratory of Hygiene, one of seven regional labs affiliated with CDC’s Antibiotic Resistance Laboratory Network, conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates from the ill people associated with this outbreak. These isolates were found to be resistant to antibiotics and shared the same DNA fingerprints, showing the isolates were likely related to one another., WGS identified multiple antimicrobial resistance genes in outbreak-associated isolates from fifteen ill people and eight cattle. This correlated with results from standard antibiotic resistance testingExternal methods used by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS)External laboratory on clinical isolates from two ill people in this outbreak. The two isolates tested were susceptible to gentamicin, azithromycin, and meropenem.  Both were resistant to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, ampicillin, cefoxitin, ceftriaxone, chloramphenicol, nalidixic acid, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and had reduced susceptibility to ciprofloxacin. Antibiotic resistance limits treatment options and has been associated with increased risk of hospitalization, bloodstream infections, and treatment failures in patients., Traceback information available at this time indicates that most calves in this outbreak originated in Wisconsin. Wisconsin health and agriculture officials continue to work with other states to identify herds that may be affected., This investigation is ongoing. CDC will provide updates when more information is available., , This outbreak is a reminder to use a One Health approach to preventing illness, which recognizes that the health of people is connected to the health of animals and the environment. Follow these steps prevent illness when handling any livestock, like dairy calves:, Salmonella bacteria live in the intestinal tracts of animals, including cattle. Cattle may become ill from Salmonella, but usually have no signs of illness. Young calves are more susceptible to being ill. The primary mode of transmission to humans is fecal-oral and is associated with contact with animals or their environments., Clinicians should consider multidrug-resistant (MDR) Salmonella Heidelberg infection in the differential diagnosis of patients with exposure to cattle, farms, or farm workers and symptoms compatible with salmonellosis (e.g., diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps)., Guidance for clinicians whose patients have suspected or confirmed Salmonella Heidelberg infection related to this outbreak:, Read more information about how to stay healthy while handling livestock., , Technical Information, Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '30940496e7615f0613de36378a28fedaad3540b603028cbf8e3b1b45fef40fc7', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Oranienburg Infections Linked to Shell Eggs | October 2016 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 13, 56, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/oranienburg-10-16/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted November 9, 2016 3:30 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over, but it is a reminder to always follow food safety steps to handle and cook eggs safely to avoid foodborne illness from raw eggs., , CDC worked with public health and regulatory officials in Missouri, several other states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Oranienburg infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., Eight people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Oranienburg were reported from three states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Among people for whom information was available, illnesses started on dates ranging from April 23, 2016 to August 24, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from 1 year to 85, with a median age of 44. Sixty-three percent of ill people were female. Among seven people with available information, two (29%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Whole genome sequencing showed that isolates from ill people are closely related genetically to one another. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection., The strain of Salmonella Oranienburg in this outbreak is closely related genetically to a Salmonella Oranienburg strain from a 2015 outbreak linked to the Good Earth Egg Company. In the 2015 outbreak, 52 people infected with the outbreak strain were reported from six states. In response to the 2015 outbreak, Good Earth Egg Company recalledExternal all of its shell eggs on January 9, 2016., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations identified shell eggs distributed by Good Earth Egg Company of Bonne Terre, Missouri as the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the six ill people who were interviewed, all six (100%) reported eating or possibly eating shell eggs in the week before illness started. Ill people reported eating eggs in restaurants as well as at home., Federal, state, and local health and regulatory officials performed a traceback investigation from one restaurant location in Missouri where three ill people reported eating eggs. This investigation indicated that Good Earth Egg Company supplied eggs to that restaurant., Missouri state and local health officials collected and tested shell eggs from the Missouri restaurant location and isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Oranienburg. Additionally, environmental samples taken at the Good Earth Egg Company processing facility isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Oranienburg. Whole genome sequencing showed that the isolates of Salmonella Oranienburg from eggs distributed by Good Earth Egg Company and from environmental samples collected in 2016 at Good Earth Egg Company were closely related genetically to isolates from ill people in this outbreak and from ill people and environmental samples in the 2015 outbreak. This close genetic relationship provided additional evidence that ill people in this outbreak and in the 2015 outbreak got sick from eating shell eggs distributed by Good Earth Egg Company., On October 3, 2016, Good Earth Egg Company recalledExternal all of its shell eggs because they have the potential to be contaminated with Salmonella. Recalled Good Earth Egg Company products were distributed throughout the Midwest, including Missouri, Illinois and Kansas., This outbreak appears to be over, but it is a reminder to always follow food safety steps to handle and cook eggs safely to avoid foodborne illness from raw eggs., , No new cases have been reported since the initial announcement on October 3, 2016., Eight people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Oranienburg were reported from three states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Among people for whom information was available, illnesses started on dates ranging from April 23, 2016 to August 24, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from 1 year to 85, with a median age of 44. Sixty-three percent of ill people were female. Among seven people with available information, two (29%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak appears to be over, but it is a reminder to always follow food safety steps to handle and cook eggs safely to avoid foodborne illness from raw eggs., , On October 3, 2016, Good Earth Egg Company recalledExternal all of its shell eggs because they have the potential to be contaminated with Salmonella. Various sizes of shell eggs are packaged in the following ways: 6-count cartons, 10-count cartons, 12-count cartons, 18-count cartons, 15 dozen cases, and 30 dozen cases. The dates and codes on the cartons and cases will include everything before and including date code 252 – Sell By 10/8/16, with “Packed for”\x9d or “Produced for Good Earth Egg Company.”\x9d, Recalled Good Earth Egg Company products were distributed throughout the Midwest, including Missouri, Illinois and Kansas, to supermarkets, wholesalers, restaurants, institutions, and direct sales to customers., , CDC is working with public health and regulatory officials in Missouri, several other states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Oranienburg infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., Eight people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Oranienburg have been reported from three states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates ranging from April 23, 2016 to August 24, 2016. Ill people range in age from 1 year to 85, with a median age of 44. Sixty-three percent of ill people are female. Among seven people with available information, two (29%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., WGS showed that isolates from ill people are closely related genetically to one another. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection., The strain of Salmonella Oranienburg in this outbreak also is closely related genetically to a Salmonella Oranienburg strain from a 2015 outbreak linked to the Good Earth Egg Company. In the 2015 outbreak, 52 people infected with the outbreak strain were reported from six states. In response to the 2015 outbreak, Good Earth Egg Company recalledExternal all of its shell eggs on January 9, 2016., The current outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve, or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after September 9, 2016, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations identified shell eggs distributed by Good Earth Egg Company of Bonne Terre, Missouri as the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the six ill people who were interviewed, all six (100%) reported eating or possibly eating shell eggs in the week before illness started. Ill people reported eating eggs in restaurants as well as at home., Federal, state, and local health and regulatory officials performed a traceback investigation from one restaurant location in Missouri where three ill people reported eating eggs. This investigation indicated that Good Earth Egg Company supplied eggs to that restaurant., Missouri health officials collected and tested shell eggs from the Missouri restaurant location and isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Oranienburg. Additionally, environmental samples taken at the Good Earth Egg Company processing facility isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Oranienburg. WGS showed that the isolates of Salmonella Oranienburg from eggs distributed by Good Earth Egg Company are closely related genetically to isolates from ill people in this outbreak and from ill people and environmental samples in the 2015 outbreak. This close genetic relationship provides additional evidence that ill people in this outbreak and in the 2015 outbreak got sick from eating shell eggs distributed by Good Earth Egg Company of Bonne Terre, Missouri., CDC recommends that consumers do not eat and restaurants and retailers do not serve or sell shell eggs distributed by Good Earth Egg Company at this time. Eggs distributed by Good Earth Egg Company were sold under different brand names. If you don’t know if your eggs were distributed by Good Earth Egg Company, ask the store where you bought them or the restaurant where they were served., This investigation is ongoing, and we will update the public when more information becomes available. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview those people about foods they ate before they got sick., Image of eggs in a carton., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '5350b5105d0ef047b02e6ab69ca043a98bb74d0fabdf21ecadb07c4563694797', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Reading and Salmonella Abony Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts | August 2016 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 17, 52, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/reading-08-16/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted September 30, 2016 12:15 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, sprouts are known to cause foodborne illness and outbreaks. You can learn more about steps to reduce your risk of getting sick from eating sprouts on the Advice to Retailers and Consumers page., , CDC collaborated with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Reading and Salmonella Abony infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., Thirty-six people infected with the outbreak strains were reported from nine states. Of those ill people, 30 were infected with Salmonella Reading, 1 was infected with Salmonella Abony, and 5 were infected with both.  A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 21, 2016 to September 10, 2016. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 72, with a median age of 30. Fifty-six percent of ill people were female. Seven ill people reported being hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve., This outbreak appears to be over. However, sprouts are known to cause foodborne illness and outbreaks. More information about steps to reduce your risk of getting sick from eating sprouts is available on the Advice to Restaurants, Retailers, and Consumers page., Epidemiologic and traceback evidence indicated that alfalfa sprouts supplied by Sprouts Extraordinaire of Denver, Colorado were the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 31 ill people who were interviewed, 18 (58%) reported eating or possibly eating alfalfa sprouts in the week before illness started. This proportion is significantly higher than results from a 2006 surveyCdc-pdf of healthy people, in which 3% reported eating raw alfalfa sprouts on a sandwich in the week before they were interviewed. Ill people in the current outbreak reported eating raw sprouts on sandwiches from several restaurants., Federal, state, and local health and regulatory officials performed a traceback investigation from five restaurants where ill people reported eating alfalfa sprouts. This investigation indicated that Sprouts Extraordinaire supplied alfalfa sprouts to all five of these locations., On August 5, 2016, Sprouts Extraordinaire recalled its alfalfa sprout products from the market due to possible Salmonella contamination. These products were sold in boxes labeled “5-lb Living Alfalfa.” Read the Advice to Restaurants, Retailers and Consumers., This outbreak appears to be over. However, sprouts are known to cause foodborne illness and outbreaks. More information about steps to reduce your risk of getting sick from eating sprouts is available on the Advice to Restaurants, Retailers and Consumers page., , CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Reading and Salmonella Abony infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., Thirty people infected with the outbreak strains have been reported from nine states. Of those ill people, 24 were infected with Salmonella Reading, 1 was infected with Salmonella Abony, and 5 were infected with both.  A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from May 21, 2016 to July 20, 2016. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 72, with a median age of 30. Fifty-three percent of ill people are female. Five ill people have been hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after July 12, 2016, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic and traceback evidence available at this time indicate that alfalfa sprouts supplied by Sprouts Extraordinaire of Denver, Colorado are the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 27 ill people who were interviewed, 17 (63%) reported eating or possibly eating alfalfa sprouts in the week before illness started. This proportion is significantly higher than results from a 2006 surveyCdc-pdf of healthy people, in which 3% reported eating sprouts on a sandwich in the week before they were interviewed. Ill people in the current outbreak reported eating raw alfalfa sprouts on sandwiches from several different restaurants., Federal, state, and local health and regulatory officials performed a traceback investigation from five restaurants where ill people reported eating alfalfa sprouts. This investigation indicated that Sprouts Extraordinaire supplied alfalfa sprouts to all five of these locations., On August 5, 2016, Sprouts Extraordinaire recalled its alfalfa sprout products from the market due to possible Salmonella contamination. These products were sold in boxes labeled “5-lb Living Alfalfa” and were distributed to Arkansas, Colorado, Kansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Texas, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. CDC recommends that restaurants and other retailers do not sell or serve and consumers do not eat recalled alfalfa sprouts supplied by Sprouts Extraordinaire. Read the Advice to Retailers and Consumers., This investigation is ongoing, and we will update the public when more information becomes available. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview those people about foods they ate before they got sick., Image of alfalfa sprouts., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '5a6973dadbafc027de8e05d548bfca94008d4324dc7b0f728cd44662688e07b0', 'headline': 'Seven Multistate Outbreaks of Human Salmonella Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks | June 2016 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 13, 42, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/live-poultry-05-16/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted October 6, 2016 2:45PM ET, These outbreak investigations are over. However, people can still get a Salmonella infection from live poultry, including those in backyard flocks. Read more information about Salmonella from live poultry and how people can reduce the chance they or their children will get an infection., , As of September 26, 2016, 895 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella were reported from 48 states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates ranging from January 4, 2016 to September 10, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 106, with a median age of 27. Of ill people, 52% were female. Among 761 ill people with available information, 209 (27%) reported being hospitalized, and three deaths were reported. Salmonella was considered to be a cause of death for one person in Mississippi. Although the two people who died in Kentucky and New Jersey had a Salmonella infection, the infection was not considered to be a cause of death., Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory findings linked the eight outbreaks to contact with live poultry, such as chicks and ducklings, from multiple hatcheries., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Contact with live poultry (chicks, chickens, ducks, ducklings) in the week before becoming ill was reported by 552 of 745 ill people interviewed, or 74%., Ill people reported purchasing live baby poultry from several suppliers, including feed supply stores, Internet sites, hatcheries, and friends in multiple states. Ill people reported purchasing live poultry to produce eggs, learn about agriculture, have as a hobby, enjoy for fun, keep as pets, or to give as Easter gifts. Some of the places ill people reported contact with live poultry included their home, someone else’s home, work, or school settings., Public health officials collected samples from live poultry and the environments where the poultry live and roam from the homes of ill people in several states or at locations of purchase in several states. Laboratory testing isolated five of the outbreak strains of Salmonella., More information about each outbreak is available in the outbreak summaries below., , Since the last update on July 19, 2016, 44 more ill people were reported from 14 states in this outbreak., A total of 249 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis was reported from 25 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: California (6), Colorado (1), Connecticut (9), Florida (9), Kentucky (23), Maine (1), Maryland (2), Michigan (36), Minnesota (7), Missouri (8), North Carolina (7), New Hampshire (1), New York (39), Nevada (1), Ohio (30), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (19), Rhode Island (4), South Carolina (1), Tennessee (6), Virginia (6), Vermont (17), Washington (4), Wisconsin (4), and West Virginia (7)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between January 4, 2016 and August 18, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 87, with a median age of 22.5. Of ill people, 53% were female. Among the 228 ill people with available information, 52 (23%) were hospitalized. One death was reported; Salmonella infection was not considered to be a cause of death., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 242 ill people who were interviewed, 240 (99%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , Since the last update on June 2, 2016, 73 more ill people have been reported from 19 states in this outbreak., A total of 205 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis was reported from 23 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: California (6), Colorado (1), Connecticut (9), Florida (9), Kentucky (17), Maine (1), Maryland (2), Michigan (32), Minnesota (2), Missouri (6), North Carolina (4), New Hampshire (1), New York (35), Ohio (30), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (13), Rhode Island (3), South Carolina (1), Virginia (5), Vermont (15), Washington (3), Wisconsin (2), West Virginia (7)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between January 4, 2016 and June 25, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 87, with a median age of 18. Of ill people, 54% were female. Among the 193 ill people with available information, 41 (21%) were hospitalized. One death was reported; Salmonella infection was not considered to be a cause of death., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 205 ill people who were interviewed, 203 (99%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , A total of 132 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis were reported from 15 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: California (6), Connecticut (4), Florida (8), Kentucky (15), Maryland (1), Michigan (25), Minnesota (1), North Carolina (3), New York (23), Ohio (18), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (9), Rhode Island (2), Virginia (4), and Vermont (12)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between January 4, 2016 and May 11, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 87, with a median age of 18. Of ill people, 58% were female. Among the 106 ill people with available information, 18 (17%) were hospitalized. One death was reported; Salmonella infection was not considered to be a contributing factor in this death., Local health officials in Michigan collected environmental samples from live poultry at feed stores; testing was performed at the state lab and the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis was isolated., Samples from live poultry and their environment were collected at the Minnesota patient’s home. Four of six samples (all from poultry purchased this spring) contained the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis., , Since the last update on July 19, 2016, 1 more ill person was reported from one state in this outbreak., A total of 25 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Muenster was reported from eight states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Indiana (3), Kentucky (1), Michigan (5), Missouri (1), New York (1), Ohio (7), Pennsylvania (2), and Tennessee (5)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 11, 2016 and July 3, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 74, with a median age of less than one year. Fifty-eight percent were male. Among 20 ill people with available information, 8 (40%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 20 ill people who were interviewed, 14 (70%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , Since the last update on June 2, 2016, five more ill people have been reported from four states in this outbreak., A total of 24 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Muenster was reported from eight states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Indiana (2), Kentucky (1), Michigan (5), Missouri (1), New York (1), Ohio (7), Pennsylvania (2), and Tennessee (5)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 11, 2016 and May 29, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 73, with a median age of less than one year. Fifty-six percent were male. Among 20 ill people with available information, 8 (40%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 20 ill people who were interviewed, 14 (70%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , Nineteen people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Muenster were reported from seven states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Indiana (1), Kentucky (1), Michigan (4), Missouri (1), Ohio (7), Pennsylvania (2), and Tennessee (3)., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 15 ill people who were interviewed, 12 (80%) reported contact with live poultry., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 11, 2016 and May 9, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 71, with a median age of 3. Of ill people, 58 percent were male. Among the 14 ill people with available information, 6 (43%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Local health officials in Michigan collected environmental samples from live poultry at feed stores; testing was performed at the state lab and the outbreak strain of Salmonella Muenster was isolated., , Since the last update on July 19, 2016, 20 more ill people were reported from 14 states in this outbreak., A total of 86 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Hadar was reported from 29 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (3), Alaska (1), Arkansas (3), California (3), Colorado (2), Connecticut (1), Georgia (1), Iowa (1), Maine (1), Massachusetts (1), Minnesota (6), Mississippi (1), Montana (6), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (1), New York (5), North Carolina (10), North Dakota (3), Oklahoma (1), Oregon (1), Pennsylvania (4), South Carolina (6), South Dakota (5), Tennessee (2), Texas (1), Virginia (8), Washington (1), West Virginia (6), and Wisconsin (1)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 27, 2016 and August 28, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 92, with a median age of 36. Fifty-four percent were female. Among 79 ill people with available information, 30 (38%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 71 ill people who were interviewed, 50 (70%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , Since the last update on June 2, 2016, 24 more ill people were reported from 15 states in this outbreak., A total of 66 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Hadar was reported from 22 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (3), Alaska (1), Arkansas (3), Colorado (3), Georgia (1), Iowa (1), Massachusetts (1), Minnesota (3), Mississippi (1), Montana (6), New Jersey (1), New York (3), North Carolina (10), North Dakota (2), Oregon (1), Pennsylvania (4), South Carolina (6), South Dakota (3), Tennessee (1), Texas (1), Virginia (7), and West Virginia (4)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 27, 2016 and June 17, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 77, with a median age of 30. Fifty-four percent were female. Among 55 ill people with available information, 20 (36%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 51 ill people who were interviewed, 44 (86%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , Forty-two people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Hadar were reported from 15 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (1), Arkansas (2), Colorado (2), Georgia (1), Massachusetts (1), Montana (6), North Carolina (7), North Dakota (1), Oregon (1), Pennsylvania (4), South Carolina (6), South Dakota (1), Texas (1), Virginia (5), and West Virginia (3)., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 29 ill people who were interviewed, 27 (93%) reported contact with live poultry., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 21, 2016 and May 6, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 77, with a median age of 30. Of ill people, 53% were female. Among the 31 ill people with available information, 11 (35%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., , Since the last update on July 19, 2016, 24 more ill people were reported from 13 states in this outbreak., A total of 110 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Indiana was reported from 24 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (10), Alaska (1), Arkansas (3), California (3), Colorado (1), Delaware (1),Georgia (10), Idaho (2), Michigan (1), Minnesota (4), Mississippi (8), Montana (7), North Carolina (16), North Dakota (1), New Hampshire (1), New York (1), Ohio (1), Oregon (3), South Carolina (4), South Dakota (5), Tennessee (1), Virginia (9), Washington (3), and West Virginia (14)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 26, 2016 and June 11, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 89, with a median age of 8.5. Fifty-four percent were male. Among 85 ill people with available information, 24 (28%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 78 ill people who were interviewed, 60 (77%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , Since the last update on June 2, 2016, 40 more ill people were reported from 18 states in this outbreak., A total of 86 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Indiana was reported from 20 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (10), Alaska (1), Arkansas (3), California (3), Colorado (1), Georgia (6), Idaho (2), Minnesota (1), Mississippi (4), Montana (7), North Carolina (15), North Dakota (1), New Hampshire (1), Ohio (1), Oregon (1), South Carolina (3), South Dakota (3), Virginia (9), Washington (1), and West Virginia (13)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 26, 2016 and June 11, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 87, with a median age of 7. Sixty percent were male. Among 68 ill people with available information, 19 (28%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 63 ill people who were interviewed, 51 (81%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , Forty-six people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Indiana were reported from 13 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (4), Arkansas (2), California (2), Colorado (1), Georgia (2), Mississippi (1), Montana (4), North Carolina (10), North Dakota (1), South Carolina (2), South Dakota (2), Virginia (7), and West Virginia (8)., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 23 ill people who were interviewed, 18 (78%) reported contact with live poultry., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 26, 2016 and May 9, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 87, with a median age of 7. Of ill people, 66% were male. Among the 26 ill people with available information, 7 (27%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., , Since the last update on July 19, 2016, 13 more ill people were reported from 8 states in this outbreak., A total of 46 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Mbandaka was reported from 20 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (7), Arizona (1), Arkansas (1), Colorado (2), Illinois (2), Indiana (3), Iowa (1), Kansas (1), Kentucky (2), Maine (1), Michigan (3), New Jersey (1), North Carolina (2), Ohio (9), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (2), Tennessee (1), Texas (1), Vermont (2), and Virginia (3)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 26, 2016 and August 19, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 92, with a median age of 12. Fifty-eight percent were female. Among 40 ill people with available information, 11 (28%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 40 ill people who were interviewed, 29 (73%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , Since the last update on June 2, 2016, 21 more ill people were reported from 13 states in this outbreak., A total of 33 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Mbandaka was reported from 17 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (7), Arizona (1), Arkansas (1), Colorado (2), Illinois (1), Indiana (1), Iowa (1), Kansas (1), Kentucky (2), Michigan (3), North Carolina (2), Ohio (5), Oklahoma (1), Tennessee (1), Texas (1), Vermont (1), and Virginia (2)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 13, 2016 and June 10, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 92, with a median age of 5. Sixty-two percent were female. Among 29 ill people with available information, 9 (31%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 30 ill people who were interviewed, 25 (83%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , Twelve people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Mbandaka were reported from seven states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (4), Arkansas (1), Indiana (1), Michigan (2), North Carolina (2), Texas (1), and Virginia (1)., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 10 ill people who were interviewed, 9 (90%) reported contact with live poultry., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 13, 2016 and May 4, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 92, with a median age of 11. Of ill people, 64% were female. Among the 10 ill people with available information, 2 (20%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., , Since the last update on July 19, 2016, 111 more ill people were reported from 33 states in this outbreak., A total of 219 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis was reported from 39 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (2), Arizona (4), California (7), Colorado (2), Connecticut (3), Georgia (4), Illinois (13), Indiana (7), Iowa (8), Kentucky (7), Louisiana (1), Maryland (5), Massachusetts (9), Michigan (2), Minnesota (21), Mississippi (4), Missouri (5), Montana (1), Nebraska (1), Nevada (1), New Hampshire (11), New Jersey (2), New York (21), North Carolina (7), North Dakota (1), Ohio (5), Oklahoma (1), Oregon (1), Pennsylvania (13), Rhode Island (3), South Carolina (4), South Dakota (5), Tennessee (1), Texas (2), Vermont (1), Virginia (9), West Virginia (3),  Wisconsin (21), and Wyoming (1)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 15, 2016 and September 10, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 106, with a median age of 30. Fifty percent were female. Among 180 ill people with available information, 49 (27%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 172 ill people who were interviewed, 90 (52%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , Since the last update on June 2, 2016, 73 more ill people were reported from 28 states in this outbreak., A total of 108 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis was reported from 30 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Arizona (1), California (1), Connecticut (1), Georgia (5), Illinois (8), Indiana (5), Iowa (3), Kentucky (5), Maryland (2), Massachusetts (3), Minnesota (11), Mississippi (3), Missouri (4), Montana (1), Nebraska (1), Nevada (1), New Hampshire (2), New Jersey (1), New York (7), North Carolina (5), North Dakota (1), Ohio (3), Pennsylvania (6), South Carolina (2), South Dakota (3), Tennessee (1), Texas (1), Virginia (9), West Virginia (2), and Wisconsin (10)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 19, 2016 and June 20, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 93, with a median age of 24. Fifty-one percent were female. Among 74 ill people with available information, 26 (35%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 71 ill people who were interviewed, 55 (77%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , Thirty-five people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis were reported from 16 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Georgia (2), Iowa (1), Illinois (4), Indiana (4), Massachusetts (1), Maryland (1), Missouri (2), North Carolina (4), New York (3), Ohio (1), Pennsylvania (4), South Carolina (1), Texas (1), Virginia (2), Wisconsin (2), and West Virginia (2)., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 18 ill people who were interviewed, 13 (72%) reported contact with live poultry., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 19, 2016 and May 9, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 86, with a median age of 14. Of ill people, 56% were female. Among the 23 ill people with available information, 15 (65%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., , Since the last update on July 19, 2016, 51 more ill people were reported from 20 states in this outbreak., A total of 129 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup was reported from 25 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Arkansas (1), Alabama (1), Florida (1), Georgia (1), Illinois (1), Indiana (7), Iowa (8), Kentucky (12), Massachusetts (8), Maryland (2), Maine (2), Michigan (8), Minnesota (2), Missouri (7), New Hampshire (2), New Jersey (2), New York (29), Ohio (15), Oregon (1), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (1), Texas (2), Utah (3), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (10)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between January 27, 2016 and September 9, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 84, with a median age of 34. Fifty-seven percent were female. Among 105 ill people with available information, 27 (26%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 100 ill people who were interviewed, 55 (55%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , Since the last update on June 2, 2016, 40 more ill people were reported from 13 states in this outbreak., A total of 78 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup was reported from 19 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Arkansas (1), Georgia (1), Illinois (1), Indiana (4), Kentucky (9), Massachusetts (6), Maryland (1), Maine (1), Michigan (4), Missouri (6), New Hampshire (2), New Jersey (1), New York (20), Ohio (10), Pennsylvania (1), Texas (1), Utah (1), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (7)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between January 27, 2016 and June 15, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 84, with a median age of 31. Fifty-eight percent were female. Among 47 ill people with available information, 12 (26%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 45 ill people who were interviewed, 35 (77%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , Thirty-eight people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup were reported from 14 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Arkansas (1), Illinois (1), Indiana (1), Kentucky (5), Massachusetts (2), Maryland (1), Michigan (3), Missouri (4), New York (8), Ohio (7), Pennsylvania (1), Texas (1), Utah (1), and Wisconsin (2)., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 24 ill people who were interviewed, 19 (79%) reported contact with live poultry., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between January 27, 2016 and May 5, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than1 year to 84, with a median age of 34. Of ill people, 65% were female. Among the 24 ill people with available information, 7 (29%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., , Since the last update on July 19, 2016, 20 more ill people were reported from 13 states., A total of 31 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis were reported from 16 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: California (2), Iowa (1), Kansas (3), Kentucky (1), Massachusetts (2), Minnesota (2), Montana (1), Nebraska (5), New York (5), Pennsylvania (1), South Dakota (2), Texas (1), Utah (1), Washington (1), West Virginia (2), and Wisconsin (1)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 3, 2016 and September 5, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 75, with a median age of 47. Sixty percent were female. Among 24 ill people with available information, 8 (33%) were hospitalized.  Two deaths were reported; Salmonella infection was considered to be a cause of death in one person in Mississippi. Although the one person who died in New Jersey had a Salmonella infection, the infection was not considered to be a cause of death., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 24 ill people who were interviewed, 14 (58%) reported contact with live poultry.,  , Since the last update on June 2, 2016, this outbreak was identified and included in the investigation., Eleven people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis were reported from six states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: California (1), Iowa (1), Kansas (3), Kentucky (1), Nebraska (4), and New York (1)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between April 6, 2016 and May 30, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from 5 years to 59, with a median age of 48. Sixty-four percent were female. Among 10 ill people with available information, 3 (30%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 11 ill people who were interviewed, 9 (82%) reported contact with live poultry., , Since the last update on June 2, 2016, one more outbreak was identified, bringing the total to eight outbreaks under investigation. Another 287 ill people have been reported from 45 states for these eight outbreaks., As of July 14, 2016, 611 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella have been reported from 45 states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates ranging from January 4, 2016 to June 25, 2016. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 93, with a median age of 20. Of ill people, 52% are female. Among 496 ill people with available information, 138 (28%) reported being hospitalized, and one death was reported. Salmonella was not considered to be a cause of death., Illnesses that started after June 16, 2016 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory findings have linked the eight outbreaks to contact with live poultry such as chicks and ducklings from multiple hatcheries., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Contact with live poultry (chicks, chickens, ducks, ducklings) in the week before becoming ill was reported by 434 of 493 ill people interviewed, or 88%., Ill people reported purchasing live baby poultry from several suppliers, including feed supply stores, Internet sites, hatcheries, and friends in multiple states. Ill people reported purchasing live poultry to produce eggs, learn about agriculture, have as a hobby, enjoy for fun, keep as pets, or to give as Easter gifts. Some of the places ill people reported contact with live poultry include their home, someone else’s home, work, or school settings., Public health officials collected samples from live poultry and the environments where the poultry live and roam from the homes of ill people in several states. Laboratory testing isolated four of the outbreak strains of Salmonella., More information about each outbreak is available in the outbreak summaries below., , CDC is collaborating with public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials in many states, as well as the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS), to investigate seven separate multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella infections. Results from these investigations showed that contact with live poultry in backyard flocks was the likely source of these outbreaks., Contact with live poultry (such as chicks, chickens, ducks, and ducklings) and their environment can make people sick with Salmonella infections. Regardless of where they are purchased, live poultry may have Salmonella germs in their droppings and on their bodies (feathers, feet, and beaks) even when they appear healthy and clean. The germs can also get on cages, coops, hay, plants, and soil in the area where the birds live and roam. People, especially children, can be exposed to Salmonella by holding, cuddling, or kissing the birds and by touching things where the bird lives, such as cages or feed and water bowls., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of these outbreaks. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., In seven separate multistate outbreaks, a total of 324 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella were reported from 35 states. Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses started on dates ranging from January 4, 2016 to May 11, 2016. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals and other exposures in the week before becoming ill; 217 (91%) of the 238 people interviewed reported contact with live poultry in the week before their illness. Ill people reported purchasing live baby poultry from several different suppliers, including feed supply stores, Co-Ops, hatcheries, and friends in multiple states. Ill people reported purchasing live poultry to produce eggs, learn about agriculture, have as a hobby,enjoy for fun, keep as pets, or to give as Easter gifts. Some of the places ill people reported contact with live poultry include at their home, someone else’s home, work, or school settings., The CDC National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) human surveillance program monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic-resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from three people infected with one of the seven outbreak strains. All three isolates were susceptible to all antibiotics tested. CDC’s NARMS laboratory continues to conduct antibiotic-resistance testing on additional clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected with one of the outbreak strains. Results will be reported when they become available., NARMS is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '6718036b4c96e8852e032395e55950585a13e181fff3506636d002e6e1148e0d', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Senftenberg Infections Linked to Wonderful Pistachios | March 2016 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 15, 13, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/montevideo-03-16/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted May 20, 2016 1:15 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. However, the recalled products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick. Read the Recall and Advice to Consumers and Retailers., , CDC collaborated with public health officials in many states and with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Montevideo infections. Since the initial announcement on March 10, 2016, infections with an additional serotype, Salmonella Senftenberg, were included in this investigation., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., A total of 11 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Montevideo (9) or Salmonella Senftenberg (2) were reported from nine states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Among people for whom information was available, illnesses started on dates ranging from January 3, 2016 to March 25, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from 27 years to 69, with a median age of 41. Sixty-four percent of ill people were male. Among eight ill people with available information, two reported being hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that pistachios produced by Wonderful Pistachios of Lost Hills, California were a likely source of this outbreak., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to obtain information about foods they might have eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 10 ill people who were interviewed, 8 (80%) reported eating pistachios in the week before illness started. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a surveyCdc-pdf of healthy people in which 12% reported eating pistachios in the week before they were interviewed. When asked about the brand of pistachios eaten, five (63%) of eight ill people reported eating Wonderful brand pistachios., Recent laboratory testing isolated the outbreak strains of Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Senftenberg from samples of raw pistachios collected from Paramount Farms, where Wonderful brand pistachios are grown., Investigators used whole genome sequencing (WGS) to get more information about the DNA fingerprint of the outbreak strains of Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Senftenberg causing illness. WGS showed that isolates of Salmonella Montevideo from ill people were closely related genetically. In addition, WGS showed that Salmonella Montevideo isolates from raw pistachios collected from Paramount Farms were also closely related genetically to isolates from 9 ill people. This close genetic relationship provided additional evidence that people became ill from consuming pistachios produced by Wonderful Pistachios., On March 9, 2016, Wonderful Pistachios voluntarily recalledExternal a limited number of flavors and sizes of in-shell and shelled pistachios because they may have been contaminated with Salmonella. The pistachios were sold under the brand names Wonderful, Paramount Farms, and Trader Joe’s and were sold nationwide and in Canada, Mexico, and Peru., Since the announcement on March 10, 2016, new WGS results showed that isolates of Salmonella Senftenberg from two ill people were closely related genetically. WGS also showed that all 11 infections from both outbreak strains were closely related genetically to the Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Senftenberg isolates found in samples of raw pistachios from Paramount Farms, as well as Salmonella Senftenberg isolates found during an FDA inspection of Paramount Farms. Paramount Farms voluntarily closed the area of its production facility where the outbreak strains of Salmonella were found., This outbreak investigation is over. However, the recalled products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick. Read the Recall and Advice to Consumers and Retailers., , CDC is collaborating with public health officials in multiple states and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Montevideo infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., A total of 11 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Montevideo have been reported from 9 states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from December 12, 2015 to February 9, 2016. Ill people range in age from 9 years to 69, with a median age of 31. Seventy-three percent of ill people are male. Among 9 ill people with available information, 2 reported being hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after February 11, 2016 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Collaborative investigative efforts of state, local, and federal public health and regulatory officials indicate that pistachios produced by Wonderful Pistachios of Lost Hills, California are a likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the nine ill people who were interviewed, eight (89%) reported eating pistachios in the week before illness started. This proportion is significantly higher than results from a surveyCdc-pdf of healthy people in which 12% reported eating pistachios in the week before they were interviewed. When asked about the brand of pistachios eaten, five (63%) of eight ill people reported eating Wonderful brand pistachios., Recent laboratory testing isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Montevideo from samples of raw pistachios collected from Paramount Farms, where Wonderful pistachios are grown., Investigators are using WGS to get more information about the DNA fingerprint of Salmonella Montevideo causing illness. WGS showed that isolates from ill people are closely related genetically. In addition, WGS showed that isolates from raw pistachios supplied by Paramount Farms are also closely related genetically to isolates from ill people. This close genetic relationship provides additional evidence that ill people in this outbreak became ill from consuming pistachios produced by Wonderful Pistachios., On March 9, 2016, Wonderful Pistachios voluntarily recalledExternal a limited number of flavors and sizes of in-shell and shelled pistachios because they may be contaminated with Salmonella. The pistachios were sold under the brand names Wonderful, Paramount Farms, and Trader Joe’s and were sold nationwide and in Canada, Mexico, and Peru., This investigation is ongoing, and we will update the public when more information becomes available. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview those people about foods they ate before they got sick., Recalled products can be identified by a lot code number that can be found on the lower back or bottom panel of the package., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '5e24da29a2647b5c8fb8806f5f79c6b87e87d42531b8c4a2819876988a069839', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Muenchen Infections Linked to Alfalfa Sprouts Produced by Sweetwater Farms | February 2016 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 19, 36, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/muenchen-02-16/index.html', 'main_text': 'This outbreak appears to be over. However, sprouts are known to cause foodborne illness and outbreaks. More information about steps to reduce your risk of getting sick from eating sprouts is available on the Advice to Consumers page., Posted May 13, 2016 12:00 PM ET, , CDC collaborated with public health officials in multiple states and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., A total of 26 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Muenchen (25 people) or Salmonella Kentucky (1 person) were reported from 12 states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Among people for whom information was available, illnesses started on dates ranging from November 26, 2015 to April 7, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from 12 years to 73, with a median age of 38. Seventy-six percent of ill people were female. Among 26 ill people with available information, 8 (31%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., Collaborative investigative efforts of state, local, and federal public health and regulatory officials indicated that alfalfa sprouts produced by multiple sprouters from one lot of contaminated seeds were the likely source of this outbreak., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to obtain information about foods they might have eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 22 ill people who were interviewed, 17 (77%) reported eating or possibly eating sprouts in the week before illness started. When asked about the type of sprouts eaten, 16 (94%) of these 17 ill people reported eating alfalfa sprouts., In February 2016, state and local health and regulatory officials in several states performed traceback investigations from multiple restaurants  where ill people ate sprouts. These investigations indicated that Sweetwater Farms of Inman, Kansas supplied alfalfa sprouts to all of these locations., FDA and Kansas Department of Agriculture conducted an inspection at Sweetwater Farms and collected samples of irrigation water and alfalfa sprouts. Testing of these samples isolated Salmonella Kentucky and Salmonella Cubana. Salmonella Muenchen was not isolated. A review of the CDC PulseNet database identified one recently reported person infected with the same DNA fingerprint of Salmonella Kentucky and this ill person was added to the outbreak case count., On February 19, 2016, the Kansas Department of Health and Environment issued a warning to consumers to not eat alfalfa sprouts produced by Sweetwater Farms and the company withdrew alfalfa sprouts from the market. On February 26, 2016, Sweetwater Farms informed FDA that it would withdraw all of its sprout products from the market., After the actions by Sweetwater Farms were taken, people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Muenchen continued to be reported. Many of these ill people reported eating alfalfa sprouts before they got sick. Traceback investigations indicated that several sprouters other than Sweetwater Farms produced the alfalfa sprouts consumed by these ill people. Additional investigation determined that all of these sprouters, as well as Sweetwater Farms, had used a common lot of alfalfa seeds to produce alfalfa sprouts. FDA tested samples of seeds from this lot and isolated Salmonella Cubana with the same DNA fingerprint of the Salmonella Cubana isolated in irrigation water from Sweetwater Farms. FDA reports that the seed supplier contacted sprouters who received the lot of contaminated seeds and asked that they return them. According to FDA, no sprouts from the contaminated seed lot are expected to be on the market., This outbreak appears to be over. However, contaminated sprouts are known to cause foodborne illness and outbreaks. More information about steps to reduce your risk of getting sick from eating sprouts is available on the Advice to Consumers page., , CDC is collaborating with public health officials in multiple states and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Muenchen infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., A total of 13 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Muenchen have been reported from four states. The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: Kansas (5), Missouri (3), Oklahoma (3), and Pennsylvania (2)., Illnesses started on dates ranging from December 1, 2015 to January 21, 2016. Ill people range in age from 18 years to 73, with a median age of 51. Ninety-two percent of ill people are female. Among 13 ill people with available information, 5 reported being hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after January 31, 2016 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Collaborative investigative efforts of state, local, and federal public health and regulatory officials indicate that alfalfa sprouts produced by Sweetwater Farms of Inman, Kansas are a likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 12 ill people who were interviewed, 10 (83%) reported eating or possibly eating sprouts in the week before illness started. When asked about the type of sprouts eaten, nine (90%) of these ten ill people reported eating alfalfa sprouts. One ill person reported purchasing Sweetwater Farms brand alfalfa sprouts from a grocery store., State and local health and regulatory officials performed traceback investigations from five different restaurant locations where ill people ate sprouts. These investigations indicated that Sweetwater Farms supplied alfalfa sprouts to all five locations., Laboratory testing isolated Salmonella from samples of irrigation water and alfalfa sprouts collected during a recent inspection at Sweetwater Farms. Further testing is ongoing to determine the type and DNA fingerprint of Salmonella isolated in these samples., The information available to date indicates that alfalfa sprouts produced by Sweetwater Farms may be contaminated with Salmonella and are not safe to eat. On February 19, 2016, the Kansas Department of Health and Environment issued a press releaseExternal warning consumers not to eat these products. We recommend that consumers do not eat and restaurants and other retailers do not sell or serve alfalfa sprouts produced by Sweetwater Farms at this time., This investigation is ongoing, and we will update the public when more information becomes available. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview those people about foods they ate before they got sick., Image of alfalfa sprouts., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '4451f18b977b4138f1b36b296ed9e9f32f5dff74c1047030922b556402e5ef86', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Virchow Infections Linked to Garden of Life RAW Meal Organic Shake &amp; Meal Products | December 2015 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 16, 56, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/virchow-02-16/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted April 21, 2016 1:30 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. However, the recalled products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick. Read the Recall &amp; Advice to Consumers and Retailers., , CDC collaborated with public health officials in multiple states and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Virchow infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., A total of 33 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Virchow were reported from 23 states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Among people for whom information was available, illnesses started on dates ranging from December 5, 2015 to March 18, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 84, with a median age of 35. Fifty-three percent of ill people were female. Among 27 ill people with available information, 6 (22%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that RAW Meal Organic Shake &amp; Meal products made by Garden of Life, LLC were the likely source of this outbreak., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to obtain information about foods they might have eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 30 ill people who were interviewed, 28 (93%) reported consuming powdered supplements or meal replacement powders in the week before illness onset; 27 of these 28 (96%) ill people specifically reported consuming RAW Meal products made by Garden of Life, LLC., On January 29, 2016, Garden of Life, LLC voluntarily recalledExternal a limited quantity of its RAW Meal Organic Shake &amp; Meal products available in chocolate, original, vanilla, and vanilla chai because they had the potential to be contaminated with Salmonella Virchow. The recalled products were available for purchase nationwide in many retail stores and online., The Utah Public Health Laboratory and Oklahoma Public Health Laboratory isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Virchow from open containers of Garden of Life RAW Meal collected from ill people’s homes in Utah and Oklahoma.  Both products that were tested were from lots covered under the recalls announced by Garden of Life, LLC., FDA sampling confirmed the presence of the outbreak strain of Salmonella Virchow in Organic Moringa Leaf powder used in RAW Meal Organic Shake &amp; Meal Replacement products. On February 12, 2016, Garden of Life, LLC issued an expanded recallExternal of its RAW Meal Organic Shake &amp; Meal products available in chocolate, original, vanilla, and vanilla chai to include additional lots that contained the contaminated Organic Moringa Leaf powder., This outbreak investigation is over. However, the recalled products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recalls could continue to eat the products and get sick. Read the Recall and Advice to Consumers and Retailers., , Since the last update on February 19, 2015, nine more ill people have been reported from eight states., As of March 21 2016, 27 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Virchow have been reported from 20 states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates ranging from December 5, 2015 to March 13, 2016. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 84, with a median age of 35. Fifty-six percent of ill people are female. Among 19 ill people with available information, 5 (26%) reported being hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after February 28, 2016 might not be reported yet. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details. The recalled products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes, and illnesses may continue to be reported., , Since the last update on February 2, 2015, seven more ill people have been reported from seven states., As of February 17, 2016, 18 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Virchow have been reported from 15 states. The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: Florida (1), Massachusetts (1), Maryland (1), Minnesota (2), New Jersey (2), New Mexico (1), North Carolina (1), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (1), Oregon (1), Rhode Island (1), Tennessee (1), Texas (1), Utah (2), and Wisconsin (1)., Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates ranging from December 5, 2015 to February 3, 2016. Ill people range in age from 1 year to 76, with a median age of 34. Fifty-six percent of ill people are male. Among 12 ill people with available information, four (33%) reported being hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after January 24, 2016 might not be reported yet. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details. The recalled products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes, and illnesses may continue to be reported., In ongoing interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 14 ill people who have been interviewed, 14 (100%) reported consuming powdered supplements or meal replacement powders in the week before illness onset; all 14 (100%) specifically reported consuming Garden of Life RAW Meal products., The Utah Public Health Laboratory and Oklahoma Public Health Laboratory isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Virchow from open containers of Garden of Life RAW Meal collected from ill people’s homes in Utah and Oklahoma. Both products that were tested were from lots covered under the recalls announced by Garden of Life, LLC. FDA sampling confirmed the presence of the outbreak strain of Salmonella Virchow in Organic Moringa Leaf powder used in RAW Meal Organic Shake &amp; Meal Replacement products., On February 12, 2016, Garden of Life, LLC issued an expanded recallExternal of its RAW Meal Organic Shake &amp; Meal products available in chocolate, original, vanilla, and vanilla chai to include these additional lots., This investigation is ongoing. CDC will provide updates when more information is available., , CDC is collaborating with public health officials in multiple states and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Virchow infections. Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories, is coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. One DNA fingerprint (outbreak strain) is included in this outbreak investigation. The outbreak strain is new to the PulseNet database., A total of 11 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Virchow have been reported from nine states. The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: Minnesota (2), New Jersey (2), New Mexico (1), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (1), Oregon (1), Tennessee (1), Utah (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Illnesses started on dates ranging from December 5, 2015, to January 21, 2016. Ill people range in age from 8 years to 76, with a median age of 35. Fifty-five percent of ill people are male. Among 10 ill people with available information, one reported being hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after January 8, 2016, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details. The recalled products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes, and illnesses may continue to be reported., The epidemiologic and laboratory evidence available at this time suggest that RAW Meal Organic Shake &amp; Meal products made by Garden of Life, LLC are a likely source of this outbreak. This investigation is ongoing., In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 10 ill people who were interviewed, 10 (100%) reported consuming powdered supplements or meal replacements powders in the week before illness onset; all 10 (100%) specifically reported consuming RAW Meal products made by Garden of Life, LLC., On January 29, 2016, Garden of Life, LLC voluntarily recalledExternal a limited quantity of its RAW Meal Organic Shake &amp; Meal products available in chocolate, original, vanilla, and vanilla chai because they have the potential to be contaminated with Salmonella Virchow. The recalled products were available for purchase nationwide in many retail stores and online., On January 31, 2016, the Utah Public Health Laboratory reported it isolated Salmonella from an open container of Garden of Life RAW Meal collected from an ill person’s home. On February 1, 2016, Oregon health officials also reported Salmonella was isolated from an open container of Garden of Life RAW Meal collected from an ill person’s home. DNA “fingerprinting” is being conducted for both samples to determine the PFGE pattern of the Salmonella isolated from this product. Results will be reported when they become available., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods they ate before they became ill., Garden of Life RAW Meal Organic Shake &amp; Meal Product, Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'ceb83e1d16fc34ac903b30c17cd2574cdac777a319991c45667f21910128cdd1', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) Infections Linked to JEM Raw Brand Sprouted Nut Butter Spreads (Final Update) | December 2015 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 15, 20, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/paratyphi-b-12-15/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted January 15, 2016 3:15 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, the recalled nut butter spreads have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick. Read the Advice to Consumers., , CDC collaborated with public health officials in multiple states and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) infections., This outbreak was caused by Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) bacteria, formerly known as Salmonella Java. People with illness caused by this bacteria typically experience diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps 12-72 hours after an exposure. Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) does not cause paratyphoid fever, enteric fever, or typhoid fever., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories, is coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. One DNA fingerprint (outbreak strain) was included in this outbreak investigation. The outbreak strain was new to the PulseNet database., A total of 13 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) were reported from 10 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: California (1), Colorado (1), Georgia (1), Hawaii (1), Idaho (1), Illinois (1), Maine (1), New Jersey (1), North Carolina (1), and Oregon (4)., Illnesses started on dates ranging from July 18, 2015, to November 22, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 79, with a median age of 41. Sixty-two percent of ill people were male. Among 11 ill people with available information, none were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., This outbreak appears to be over. However, the recalled nut butter products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick.  , The epidemiologic evidence collected during the investigation indicated that JEM Raw brand sprouted nut butter spreads was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. All 10 ill people interviewed (100%) reported exposure to a nut butter or nut butter spread in the week before illness onset, and eight (80%) of these people specifically reported exposure to a JEM Raw brand sprouted nut spread., On December 2, 2015, JEM Raw Chocolate, LLC of Bend, Oregon, voluntarily recalledExternal its entire line of sprouted nut butter spreads because of potential contamination with Salmonella. The recall affects all flavors of sprouted nut butter spreads sold by JEM Raw with best by dates of October 30, 2016 or earlier. The nut butter spreads were distributed nationwide in retail stores and through mail order. The products were sold in glass jars in sizes ranging from 1.25 ounces to 16 ounces., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat, and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), USDA, and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from four ill people infected with the outbreak strain. All four isolates (100%) were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel., , Since the last update on December 3, 2015, two more ill people were reported from Maine and Oregon. A total of 13 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) were reported from 10 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: California (1), Colorado (1), Georgia (1), Hawaii (1), Idaho (1), Illinois (1), Maine (1), New Jersey (1), North Carolina (1), and Oregon (4)., Illnesses started on dates ranging from July 18, 2015, to November 22, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 79, with a median age of 41. Sixty-two percent of ill people were male. Among 11 ill people with available information, none were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., , CDC is collaborating with public health officials in multiple states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) infections., This outbreak is caused by Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) bacteria, formerly known as Salmonella Java. People with illness caused by this bacteria typically experience diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps 12-72 hours after an exposure. Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) does not cause paratyphoid fever, enteric fever, or typhoid fever., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories, is coordinated by CDC. DNA ‘fingerprinting’ is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. One DNA fingerprint (outbreak strain) is included in this outbreak investigation. The outbreak strain is new to the PulseNet database., A total of 11 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) have been reported from nine states as of December 2, 2015. The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: California (1), Colorado (1), Georgia (1), Hawaii (1), Idaho (1), Illinois (1), North Carolina (1), New Jersey (1), and Oregon (3)., Illnesses started on dates ranging from July 18, 2015, to October 15, 2015. Ill people range in age from 1 year to 79, with a median age of 48. Sixty-four percent of ill people are male. Among nine ill people with available information, none reported being hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after October 30, 2015, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details. The recalled nut butter products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes, restaurants, and grocery stores, and illnesses may continue to be reported., The epidemiologic evidence available at this time indicates that JEM Raw brand sprouted nut butter spreads are the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. All eight ill people interviewed (100%) reported exposure to a nut butter or nut butter spread in the week before illness onset, and six (75%) of these people specifically reported exposure to a JEM Raw brand sprouted nut spread., On December 2, 2015, JEM Raw Chocolate, LLC of Bend, Oregon, voluntarily recalledExternal its entire line of sprouted nut butter spreads because of potential contamination with Salmonella. The nut butter spreads were distributed nationwide in retail stores and through mail order. The recall affects all flavors of sprouted nut butter spreads sold by JEM Raw. The products were sold in glass jars in sizes ranging from 1.25 ounces to 16 ounces., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods they ate before they become ill., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '3e48a347f49e75e2daabfbc8129b21b4a78101fccd898fda80d598cde8463edc', 'headline': 'Two Multistate Outbreaks of Human Salmonella Infections Linked to Small Turtles', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 18, 30, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/small-turtles-10-15/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted May 18, 2016 10:00AM ET, , CDC collaborated with public health, veterinary, agriculture, and wildlife officials in many states, U.S Fish and Wildlife Service, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS), and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) Center for Veterinary MedicineExternal to investigate four separate multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella infections. Results from these investigations indicated that contact with small turtles or their environment were the likely source of these outbreaks., Contact with reptiles (such as turtles, snakes, and lizards) can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Reptiles can carry Salmonella germs and still appear healthy and clean. Salmonella germs are shed in reptile feces (droppings) and can easily contaminate their bodies and anything in areas where these animals live. Reptiles that live in tanks or aquariums can contaminate the water with germs, which can spread to people. Turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches are a well-known source of human Salmonella infections, especially among young children. Because of this risk, the FDA banned the sale and distribution of these turtlesExternal in 1975., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of these outbreaks. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., In four separate multistate outbreaks, a total of 133 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella were reported from 26 states between January 16, 2015 and April 8, 2016. In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals during the week before becoming ill; 55 (50%) of the 110 people interviewed reported contact with small turtles or their environments, such as water from a turtle habitat, before their illness. Twenty-five (45%) of the 55 ill people who had contact with small turtles reported purchasing the turtle from a street vendor or receiving the turtle as a gift. One ill person received a small turtle purchased at a flea market vendor who obtained the turtles from Tangi Turtle Farm in Louisiana., On April 28, 2016, the World Health Organization (WHO) posted on their Disease Outbreak NewsExternal to inform the international health community about the CDC outbreak investigation. Because small turtles raised in the United States are exported to other countries, WHO indicated that there is a risk to people, especially to young children, in other countries., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from 15 people infected with one of the four outbreak strains. One isolate was resistant to ampicillin, streptomycin, gentamicin, and tetracycline;  the other 14 isolates were susceptible to all antibiotics tested., Summaries for each of the four separate multistate outbreak investigations are provided below., Seventeen people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Sandiego were reported from 9 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: California (6), Florida (1), Illinois (3), Mississippi (1), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (1), South Carolina (1), Texas (2), and Vermont (1)., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 13 ill people who were interviewed, 8 (62%) reported contact with small turtles or their environments, such as water from a turtle habitat, in the week before they became ill., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between January 16, 2015 and November 22, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 77 years, with a median age of 8. Sixty-five percent of ill people were female. Among the 15 ill people with available information, 5 (33 %) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Seventy people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Poona and Salmonella IIIb 61:i:z53 were reported from 21 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (1), Arizona (1), California (26), Connecticut (1), Florida (1), Illinois (3), Indiana (1), Kansas (1), Louisiana (1), Missouri (1), Nevada (2), New Jersey (2), North Carolina (2), New York City (7), Ohio (1), Oregon (1), Pennsylvania (3), South Carolina (4), Tennessee (1), Texas (9), and Virginia (1)., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 59 ill people who were interviewed, 33 (56%) reported contact with small turtles or their environments, such as water from a turtle habitat, in the week before they became ill., Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between April 7, 2015 and April 8, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 96 years, with a median age of 6. Forty-three percent of ill people were female. Among the 59 ill people with available information, 21 (36%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Several states collected samples from turtles and their environments at ill persons’ homes and isolated the outbreak strains of Salmonella Poona., Twenty-one people infected with a different outbreak strain of Salmonella Sandiego were reported from 7 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Arizona (2), California (9), New Jersey (1), New Mexico (4), Oregon (2), Texas (2), and Washington (1)., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 18 ill people who were interviewed, 7 (39%) reported contact with small turtles or their environments, such as water from a turtle habitat, in the week before they became ill., Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 8, 2015 and October 25, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 65 years, with a median age of 19. Fifty-seven percent of ill people were female. Among the 18 ill people with available information, 5 (28%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Oregon public health officials collected samples from turtles and their environment at ill persons’ homes, and the Oregon State Laboratory isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Sandiego., Twenty-five people infected with a different outbreak strain of Salmonella Poona were reported from 6 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Arizona (2), California (10), Nevada (2), New York City (1), Ohio (1), and Texas (9)., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals in the week before they became ill. Of the 20 ill people who were interviewed, 7 (35%) reported contact with small turtles or their environments, such as water from a turtle habitat, in the week before they became ill., Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 11, 2015 and November 14, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 78 years, with a median age of 4. Fifty-four percent of ill people were female. Among the 22 ill people with available information, 7 (32%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Local health officials in California collected samples from the turtle environment at an ill person’s home, and isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Poona., CDC collaborated with public health, veterinary, agriculture, and wildlife officials in many states and with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Center for Veterinary MedicineExternal to investigate two multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella infections. Results from these investigations indicated that contact with small turtles or their environment were the likely source of these outbreaks., Contact with reptiles (such as turtles, snakes, and lizards) can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Reptiles can carry Salmonella germs and still appear healthy and clean. Salmonella germs are shed in reptile feces (poop) and can easily contaminate their bodies and anything in areas where these animals live. Reptiles that live in tanks or aquariums can contaminate the water with germs, which can spread to people. Turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches are a well-known source of human Salmonella infections, especially among young children. Because of this risk, the FDA bannedExternal the sale and distribution of these turtles in 1975., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of these outbreaks. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. A total of two DNA fingerprints (outbreak strains) were included in these outbreak investigations., A total of 51 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella were reported from 16 states between January 22, 2015 and September 8, 2015. In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals during the week before becoming ill; 20 (59%) of the 34 people interviewed who were ill with one of the outbreak strains reported contact with small turtles or their environments, such as water from a turtle habitat, before becoming ill.  Sixteen (80%) of the 20 ill people who had contact with small turtles reported purchasing the turtle from a street vendor or receiving the turtle as a gift., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from seven ill people infected with one of the outbreak strains; all seven isolates were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel., Summaries of the two outbreak investigations are provided below., Outbreak 1: Salmonella Sandiego Investigation, Eleven people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Sandiego were reported from six states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: California (4), Illinois (3), Mississippi (1), South Carolina (1), Texas (1), and Vermont (1)., Among people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between January 22, 2015 and August 18, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from younger than one year to 77 years, with a median age of 12. Seventy-three percent of ill people were female. Among the nine ill people with available information, four (44%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Outbreak 2: Salmonella Poona Investigation, Forty people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Poona were reported from 13 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Arizona (1), California (15), Illinois (2), Kansas (1), Missouri (1), Nevada (1), New Jersey (2), New York (5), North Carolina (1), Ohio (1), Oregon (1), Pennsylvania (3), and Texas (6)., Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between April 16, 2015 and September 8, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from younger than one year to 82 years, with a median age of 4. Fifty-three percent of ill people were male. Among the 25 ill people with available information, 11 (44%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'fb712c3940a85d8f8265abf471f373982737e5827b90e3a527ee7df534c5fa10', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers (Final Update)  | Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Poona Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers | September 2015 | Salmonella | CDC\n\n', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 20, 1, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/poona-09-15/index.html', 'main_text': '[Posted March 18, 2016 2:30 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella remains an important cause of human illness in the United States. For more information about Salmonella and steps that people can take to reduce their risk of infection, visit CDC’s Salmonella webpage., , CDC collaborated with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Poona infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., A total of 907 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Poona were reported from 40 states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Among people for whom information was available, illnesses started on dates ranging from July 3, 2015 to February 29, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 18. Forty-nine percent of ill people were children younger than 18 years. Fifty-six percent of ill people were female. Among 720 people with available information, 204 (28%) were hospitalized. Six deaths were reported from Arizona (1), California (3), Oklahoma (1), and Texas (1). According to the California Department of Public Health, Salmonella infection was not considered to be a contributing factor in two of the three deaths in California., WGS showed that isolates from ill people were closely related genetically. These results also included isolates from people who became ill in October, November and January after the outbreak’s peak. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection, such as a contaminated food., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations identified imported cucumbers from Mexico and distributed by Andrew &amp; Williamson Fresh Produce as the likely source of the infections in this outbreak., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to obtain information about foods they might have eaten and other exposures in the week before their illness began. In interviews, 391 (75%) of 519 people reported eating cucumbers. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey of healthy people Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] in which 47% reported eating cucumbers in the week before they were interviewed., Also, many ill people were identified as part of illness clusters. An illness cluster is defined as two or more people who do not live in the same household who report eating at the same restaurant location, attending a common event, or shopping at the same location of a grocery store in the week before becoming ill. Investigating illness clusters can provide critical clues about the source of an outbreak. If several unrelated ill persons ate or shopped at the same location of a restaurant or store within several days of each other, it suggests that the contaminated food item was served or sold there. Eleven illness clusters were identified in seven states. In all of these clusters, interviews found that cucumbers were a common item eaten by ill people. Epidemiologic studies that compare foods eaten by both ill and well people were conducted in two of these clusters. Results of these studies indicated that a food item containing cucumbers was associated with illness., CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from 30 ill people infected with one of the outbreak strains. Of the 30 isolates tested, 2 (7%) were drug resistant (resistance to one or more antibiotics), and the other 28 (93%) isolates were not resistant to any of the antibiotics tested by NARMS. One drug-resistant isolate was resistant to tetracycline. The other isolate was resistant to nalidixic acid and nonsusceptible to ciprofloxacin. Nonsusceptible means an antibiotic cannot completely kill bacteria or stop their growth. Ciprofloxacin is commonly used to treat serious Salmonella infections in adults but is not routinely used in children. Antibiotic resistance may be associated with increased risk of hospitalization, development of a bloodstream infection, or treatment failure., Several state health and agriculture departments collected and tested cucumbers from retail locations and isolated the outbreak strains of Salmonella Poona. Information indicated that these cucumbers were distributed by Andrew &amp; Williamson Fresh Produce. Additionally, testing of cucumbers collected from the Andrew &amp; Williamson Fresh Produce facility isolated the outbreak strains of Salmonella Poona., WGS of Salmonella Poona isolates from ill people and from contaminated cucumbers distributed by Andrew &amp; Williamson Fresh Produce showed that the strains were closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship provided additional evidence that ill people in this outbreak became ill from consuming cucumbers distributed by Andrew &amp; Williamson., Early in an outbreak investigation, consultation with independent industry experts can provide important clues to help focus the investigation on certain suspected foods. An industry consultation was held on August 26, 2015, with four independent experts from the produce industry to obtain information regarding fresh produce harvesting and distribution in the areas where ill people were being reported. The consultants provided information regarding crop production and distribution practices that helped assess the plausibility of cucumbers and other produce items as possible outbreak sources., Traceback information collected from the 11 illness clusters indicated that cucumbers eaten by ill people were imported from Mexico and distributed by Andrew &amp; Williamson Fresh Produce., Two recalls of garden variety cucumbers distributed by Andrew &amp; Williamson Fresh Produce were announced because the cucumbers were likely contaminated with Salmonella. Recalled cucumbers were grown in Baja California, Mexico and distributed to many U.S. states. On September 4, 2015, Andrew &amp; Williamson Fresh Produce voluntarily recalledExternal all cucumbers sold under the Limited Edition brand label from August 1, 2015 through September 3, 2015. On September 11, 2015, Custom Produce Sales voluntarily recalledExternal all cucumbers sold under the Fat Boy brand label starting August 1, 2015. These cucumbers were sent to Custom Produce Sales from Andrew &amp; Williamson Fresh Produce., The number of reported illnesses declined substantially after the peak of illnesses in August and September; however, illnesses did not return to the expected number for several months afterwards for this DNA fingerprint (typically, about one illness is expected every month from November through January). Instead, 127 illnesses started after September 24, 2015, when recalled cucumbers should have no longer been available in stores or restaurants. If any of the recalled cucumbers were still available, they would have spoiled by that time., WGS results from illnesses which occurred after the end of September 2015 suggested they shared a common source with the illnesses during the peak of the outbreak in August and September. State and local public health officials interviewed 46 of these ill people. Of that group, 29 (63%) reported eating cucumbers in the week before their illness started. Interviews did not identify any additional food items potentially linked with illness. Investigations were unable to determine if the illnesses could be explained by cross-contamination within the distribution chain for the recalled cucumbers, such as in shipping containers or at retail locations. This outbreak appears to be over., , This outbreak appears to be over. Since the last update on January 26, 2016, 19 more ill people were reported from eight states., A total of 907 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Poona were reported from 40 states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Among people for whom information was available, illnesses started on dates ranging from July 3, 2015 to February 29, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 18. Forty-nine percent of ill people were children younger than 18 years. Fifty-six percent of ill people were female. Among 720 people with available information, 204 (28%) were hospitalized. Six deaths were reported from Arizona (1), California (3), Oklahoma (1), and Texas (1). According to the California Department of Public Health, Salmonella infection was not considered to be a contributing factor in two of the three deaths in California., , Since the last update on November 19, 2015, 50 more ill people have been reported from 16 states. Illnesses that occurred after December 21, 2015 might not be reported yet. A series of events occurs between the time a person is infected and the time public health officials can determine that the person is part of an outbreak. This means that there will be a delay between when a person gets sick and confirmation that he or she is part of an outbreak. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., As of January 21, 2016, 888 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Poona have been reported from 39 states. The number of ill people reported from each state is as follows: Alabama (1), Alaska (19), Arizona (134), Arkansas (13), California (241), Colorado (21), Connecticut (1), Florida (1), Hawaii (1), Idaho (26), Illinois (11), Indiana (5), Iowa (7), Kansas (2), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (5), Maryland (1), Minnesota (43), Missouri (15), Montana (16), Nebraska (8), Nevada (17), New Hampshire (1), New Mexico (35), New York (6), North Dakota (8), Ohio (3), Oklahoma (13), Oregon (23), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (10), South Dakota (3), Tennessee (1), Texas (52), Utah (62), Virginia (1), Washington (26), Wisconsin (46), and Wyoming (7)., Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates ranging from July 3, 2015 to January 6, 2016. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 18. Forty-nine percent of ill people are children younger than 18 years. Fifty-six percent of ill people are female. Among 686 people with available information, 191 (28%) report being hospitalized. Six deaths have been reported from Arizona (1), California (3), Oklahoma (1), and Texas (1). According to the California Department of Public Health, Salmonella infection was not considered to be a contributing factor in two of the three deaths in California., Whole genome sequencing (WGS) of Salmonella Poona isolates from ill people and from contaminated cucumbers distributed by Andrew &amp; Williamson Fresh Produce showed that the strains are closely related genetically. These results also included isolates from people who became ill in October and November., The number of reported illnesses has declined substantially since the peak of illnesses in August and September; however, it has not returned to the number of reported illnesses that we would expect to see (about 1 every month during this time of year)., One hundred and six illnesses started after September 24, 2015, when recalled cucumbers should have no longer been available in stores or restaurants. If any of the recalled cucumbers were still available, they would have spoiled by that time. State and local public health officials have interviewed 38 of these ill people. Twenty-four (63%) of them reported eating cucumbers in the week before their illness started. Interviews have not identified any additional food items potentially linked with illness. The investigation into the source of these recent illnesses is ongoing., The source of contamination for cucumbers distributed by Andrew &amp; Williamson Fresh Produce has not been identified. WGS results from recent illnesses suggest they share a common source with the illnesses during the peak of the outbreak in August and September. Investigations are under way to determine if cross-contamination within the distribution chain for the recalled cucumbers could explain recent illnesses., This investigation is ongoing. CDC will provide updates when more information is available., , Since the last update on October 14, 2015, 71 more ill people have been reported from 23 states. Illnesses that occurred after October 21, 2015 might not be reported yet. A series of events occurs between the time a person is infected and the time public health officials can determine that the person is part of an outbreak. This means that there will be a delay between when a person gets sick and confirmation that he or she is part of an outbreak. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., As of November 18, 2015, 838 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Poona have been reported from 38 states. The number of ill people reported from each state is as follows: Alabama (1), Alaska (17), Arizona (129), Arkansas (13), California (232), Colorado (19), Connecticut (1), Florida (1), Hawaii (1), Idaho (24), Illinois (9), Indiana (5), Iowa (7), Kansas (2), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (5), Maryland (1), Minnesota (40), Missouri (14), Montana (16), Nebraska (8), Nevada (16), New Hampshire (1), New Mexico (32), New York (6), North Dakota (8), Ohio (3), Oklahoma (13), Oregon (22), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (10), South Dakota (3), Texas (42), Utah (58), Virginia (1), Washington (25), Wisconsin (43), and Wyoming (7)., Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates ranging from July 3, 2015 to November 1, 2015. Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 99, with a median age of 18. Fifty percent of ill people are children younger than 18 years. Fifty-seven percent of ill people are female. Among 601 people with available information, 165 (27%) report being hospitalized. Four deaths have been reported from Arizona (1), California (1), Oklahoma (1), and Texas (1)., The number of reported illnesses has declined substantially since the peak of illnesses in August and September; however, it has not returned to the number of reported illnesses that we would expect to see (about 5 every month). The investigation into the source of these recent illnesses is ongoing., Case Count Update', 'reports': []}, {'id': '5f92b8bf477cccc8c6150c7ab8cdcdd2af36213d5b3187e7ad051e4080ced8f7', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Multidrug-Resistant Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- and Salmonella Infantis Infections Linked to Pork (Final Update)  | Multistate Outbreak of Multidrug-Resistant Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- or Salmonella Infantis Infections Linked to Pork (Final Update) | August 2015 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 18, 28, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/pork-08-15/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted December 2, 2015 1:30 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. For more information about Salmonella and steps that people can take to reduce their risk of infection, visit CDC’s Salmonella webpage., , The Washington State Department of HealthExternal (DOH), Public Health—Seattle  &amp; King CountyExternal (PHSKC), several states, CDC, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) investigated an outbreak of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- and Salmonella Infantis infections linked to pork., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. CDC coordinates PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks of enteric illness. Six DNA fingerprints (outbreak strains) were included in this outbreak investigation. The six strains are rare in Washington but more common in other U.S. states. WGS was performed on clinical isolates from ill people in other states who were suspected to be part of the outbreak. Some of these isolates were found to be closely genetically related to clinical isolates from Washington. This close association provided additional evidence that illnesses that occurred in other states were related to the illnesses in Washington., A total of 192 ill people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- (188) and Salmonella Infantis (4) were reported from five states. The number of ill people reported from each state was as follows: Alaska (1), California (2), Idaho (2), Oregon (3), and Washington (184). Most of the ill people infected in states other than Washington traveled to Washington in the week before their illness started., Among people for whom information was available, illnesses started on dates ranging from April 25, 2015, to September 25, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 90, with a median age of 35. Fifty-one percent of ill people were female. Among 180 ill people with available information, 30 (17%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback findings identified pork produced by Kapowsin Meats as the likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- and Salmonella Infantis infections., In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 123 people for whom information was available, 94 (76%) reported eating pork in the week before becoming ill. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy people in which 43% reported eating pork in the week before they were interviewed., In addition, numerous ill people were identified as part of illness clusters following events such as pig roasts. An illness cluster is defined as two or more people who do not live in the same household who report eating at the same restaurant location, attending a common event, or shopping at the same location of a grocery store in the week before becoming ill. Investigating illness clusters can provide critical clues about the source of an outbreak. If several unrelated ill persons ate or shopped at the same location of a restaurant or store within several days of each other, it suggests that the contaminated food item was served or sold there., Laboratory testing confirmed the outbreak strains in environmental samples collected by Washington State DOH from the Kapowsin Meats facility. On August 13, 2015, Kapowsin Meats voluntarily recalledExternal approximately 116,262 pounds of whole pigs that might be contaminated with Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:-. The product was shipped to individuals, retail locations, institutions, and distributors in Alaska, Oregon, and Washington., While Kapowsin Meats took steps to address sanitary conditions at their facility after the original recallExternal on August 13, 2015, USDA-FSISExternal conducted intensified sampling. The intensified sampling identified Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- and Salmonella Infantis on whole pigs for barbeque, on associated pork products, and throughout the facility. Kapowsin Meats voluntarily suspended operations and on August 27, 2015, expanded its recallExternal to include approximately 523,380 pounds of pork products that might be contaminated with Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:-. Recalled pork products included whole pigs for barbeque, various pork offal products, pork blood, and pork trim. The products were shipped to individuals, retail locations, institutions, and distributors in Alaska, Oregon, and Washington. A review of the PulseNet database identified 4 people infected with the same DNA fingerprint of Salmonella Infantis, and these ill people were included in the outbreak case count. Interviews were conducted with 3 of the 4 ill people; all 3 people reported eating pork in the week before their illness started., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), USDA, and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from 10 ill people infected with one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:-. Of the 10 isolates tested, all (100%) were multidrug resistant. This included resistance to ampicillin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline. Antibiotic resistance may be associated with increased risk of hospitalization, development of a bloodstream infection, or treatment failure in patients., , Since the last update on August 28, 2015, 40 more ill people were reported, including 32 people from Washington and 8 people from Alaska (1), California (2), Idaho (2), and Oregon (3)., A total of 192 ill people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- (188) and Salmonella Infantis (4) were reported from five states. The number of ill people reported from each state was as follows: Alaska (1), California (2), Idaho (2), Oregon (3), and Washington (184)., Among people for whom information was available, illnesses started on dates ranging from April 25, 2015, to September 25, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 90, with a median age of 35. Fifty-one percent of ill people were female. Among 180 ill people with available information, 30 (17%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., , As of August 27, 2015, 152 ill people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- have been reported from Washington. Since the last update on August 14, 18 more ill people have been reported., Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates ranging from April 25, 2015 to August 12, 2015. Ill people range in age from 1 to 90 years, with a median age of 35. Forty-seven percent of ill people are female. Among 144 ill people with available information, 24 (17%) report being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after August 13, 2015 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback findings identified pork produced by Kapowsin Meats as a likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- infections. This investigation is ongoing., In ongoing interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 89 people for whom information is available, 65 (73%) reported eating pork in the week before becoming ill. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a surveyCdc-pdf of healthy people in which 43% reported eating pork in the week before they were interviewed., USDA-FSISExternal has been conducting intensified sampling at Kapowsin Meats while this establishment took steps to address sanitary conditions at their facility after the original recallExternal on August 13, 2015. Sampling revealed positive results for Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- on whole pigs for barbeque, associated pork products, and throughout the establishment. Kapowsin Meats has voluntarily suspended operations. As a result of the ongoing investigation, on August 27, 2015, Kapowsin Meats issued an expanded recallExternal of approximately 523,380 pounds of pork products that may be contaminated with Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:-. Recalled pork products include whole pigs for barbeque and fabricated pork products including various pork offal products, pork blood, and pork trim. The products subject to recall bear the establishment number “Est. 1628”\x9d inside the USDA mark of inspection and were produced on several dates between April 18, 2015 and August 26, 2015. The products were shipped to various individuals, retail locations, institutions, and distributors in Alaska, Oregon, and Washington., CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from 10 ill people infected with one of the outbreak strains. Of the 10 isolates tested, all (100%) were multidrug resistant. This included resistance to ampicillin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline. Antibiotic resistance may be associated with increased risk of hospitalization, development of a bloodstream infection, or treatment failure in patients. CDC’s NARMS laboratory continues to test additional isolates. Results will be reported when they become available., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available., , The Washington State Department of HealthExternal (DOH) and Public Health—Seattle &amp; King CountyExternal (SKC), with CDC and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS), are investigating an outbreak of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- infections linked to pork., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories, is coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA “fingerprints”\x9d to identify possible outbreaks. Five DNA “fingerprints”\x9d (outbreak strains) are included in this outbreak investigation. The five strains are rare in Washington., A total of 134 ill people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- have been reported from Washington., Among people for whom information is available, illnesses started on dates ranging from April 25, 2015 to August 1, 2015. Ill people range in age from 1 year to 90, with a median age of 35. Forty-six percent of ill people are female. Among 111 ill people with available information, 16 (14%) report being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after July 27, 2015 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., CDC is assisting DOH and SKC with the epidemiologic investigation. A CDC Epi-Aid team arrived in Seattle, Washington on August 3, 2015., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback findings identified pork produced by Kapowsin Meats as a likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- infections. This investigation is ongoing., In ongoing interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 55 people for whom information is available, 37 (67%) reported eating pork in the week before becoming ill. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages]  of healthy people in which 43% reported eating pork in the week before they were interviewed. In addition, numerous ill people were identified as part of illness clusters following events such as whole hog roasts. An illness cluster is defined as two or more people who do not live in the same household who report eating at the same restaurant location, attending a common event, or shopping at the same location of a grocery store in the week before becoming ill. Investigating illness clusters can provide critical clues about the source of an outbreak. If several unrelated ill persons ate or shopped at the same location of a restaurant or store within several days of each other, it suggests that the contaminated food item was served or sold there., On July 31, 2015, USDA-FSIS issued a public health alertExternal due to concerns about illnesses caused by Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:- that may be associated with pork products, specifically whole pigs used for roasts. USDA-FSIS advises all consumers to safely prepare raw meat products and only consume pork products that have been cooked to an internal temperature of 145°F with 3 minutes of rest time., Laboratory testing of environmental samples collected from Kapowsin Meats by DOH confirmed the outbreak strain was present in the facility. The business, which is regulated by USDA-FSIS, has cooperated with the investigation., As a result of this investigation, on August 13, 2015, Kapowsin Meats voluntarily recalledExternal approximately 116,262 pounds of whole pigs that may be contaminated with Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:-. The product subject to recall bears the establishment number “est. 1628”\x9d inside the USDA mark of inspection and was produced on various dates between April 18, 2015 and July 27, 2015. The product was shipped to various individuals, retail locations, institutions, and distributors in Alaska and Washington., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), USDA, and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from three ill people infected with one of the outbreak strains. Of the three isolates tested, all (100%) were multidrug resistant. This included resistance to ampicillin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline. Antibiotic resistance may be associated with increased risk of hospitalization, development of a bloodstream infection, or treatment failure in patients. CDC’s NARMS laboratory continues to conduct antibiotic resistance testing on additional clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected with the outbreak strains. Results will be reported when they become available., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'af0d48b97da3007ac438e9ba156d0b08c0c6605b149fe63d13fe9273f4c6ebf6', 'headline': 'Salmonella Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees (Final Update) | July 2015 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 14, 46, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/frozen-chicken-entrees-part2-07-15/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted October 16, 2015 2:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, the recalled frozen chicken products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s freezers. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick. Read the Advice to Consumers., This outbreak was not connected with an outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed chicken entrees produced by Barber Foods and sold under many different brands., , The Minnesota Department of HealthExternal (MDH) and Department of Agriculture (MDA), CDC, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) investigated an outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to frozen, raw, stuffed and breaded chicken entrees produced by Aspen Foods. This outbreak was not connected with an outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed chicken entrees produced by Barber Foods., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. Two DNA fingerprints (outbreak strains) were included in this investigation. Because the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis included in this investigation are common in the PulseNet database, WGS was performed to help identify which illnesses were related to this outbreak., A total of five people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis were reported from Minnesota., Illness onset dates ranged from May 9, 2015 to July 22, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from 14 years to 68, with a median age of 30, and 60% were male. Two (40%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback information indicated that frozen, raw, stuffed and breaded chicken entrees produced by Aspen Foods was the likely source of this outbreak., MDH and MDA collected 30 samples of unopened Antioch Farms brand frozen chicken entrees produced by Aspen Foods from retail locations for laboratory testing. MDA isolated Salmonella from 25 of these samples. A review of the PulseNet database was conducted to identify any illnesses from strains of Salmonella isolated from these food samples. WGS determined that two Salmonella Enteritidis isolates from people in Minnesota were closely related genetically to one another and to an isolate from a food sample. During interviews, both ill people reported consuming Antioch Farms brand frozen, raw, stuffed and breaded chicken entrees produced by Aspen Foods in the week before their illness began. As a result of these findings, both ill people were added to the total case count for this outbreak., On July 15, 2015, Aspen Foods recalledExternal approximately 1.9 million pounds of frozen, raw, stuffed and breaded chicken products that may be contaminated with Salmonella Enteritidis. The recall included products sold under many different brand names, including Antioch Farms, and were shipped to retail stores and food service locations nationwide. The chicken products were produced between April 15, 2015 and July 10, 2015. The products subject to recall bear the establishment number “P-1358”\x9d on the packaging., On September 17, 2015, USDA-FSIS reportedExternal that frozen, raw, stuffed and breaded chicken products produced by Aspen Foods were confirmed as having the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis. USDA-FSIS reported that it cannot have confidence in the safety of any of these products produced between July 30, 2015 and September 17, 2015. Products bear the establishment number “P-1358”\x9d on the packaging and have “best if used by”\x9d dates between October 29, 2016 and December 16, 2016. These dates were calculated by USDA-FSIS using production dates and the 15-month shelf life of the products., On October 2, 2015, Aspen Foods issued an expanded recallExternal of approximately 561,000 pounds of frozen, raw, stuffed and breaded chicken products that appear to be ready-to-eat and may be contaminated with Salmonella Enteritidis. The frozen, raw, stuffed and breaded chicken products were produced between August 25, 2015 and September 17, 2015 with “best if used by”\x9d dates of August 23, 2016 to December 15, 2016. The products subject to recall bear the establishment number “P-1358”\x9d inside the USDA mark of inspection, and were shipped to retail stores and food service locations nationwide., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from three ill people infected with the outbreak strains. Of the three isolates tested, all (100%) were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel., This outbreak appears to be over. However, the recalled frozen chicken products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s freezers. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick., , A total of five people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis were reported from Minnesota., Illness onset dates ranged from May 9, 2015 to July 22, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from 14 years to 68, with a median age of 30, and 60% were male. Two (40%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., On October 2, 2015, Aspen Foods issued an expanded recallExternal of approximately 561,000 pounds of frozen, raw, stuffed and breaded chicken products that appear to be ready-to-eat and may be contaminated with Salmonella Enteritidis., The frozen, raw, stuffed, and breaded chicken products were produced between August 25, 2015 and September 17, 2015 with “best if used by”\x9d dates of August 23, 2016 to December 15, 2016. The products subject to recall bear the establishment number “P-1358”\x9d inside the USDA mark of inspection, and were shipped to retail stores and food service locations nationwide. Consumers who have purchased these products are urged not to eat them or any previously recalled products., , Since the last case count update on July 13, 2015, two more ill people were reported from Minnesota, bringing the total to five. Those two illnesses occurred in July, and were identified as a result of product testing., Illness onset dates range from May 9, 2015 to July 22, 2015. Ill people range in age from 14 years to 68, with a median age of 30, and 60% are male. Two (40%) people were hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., The Minnesota Department of Health and the Minnesota Department of Agriculture (MDA) collected 30 samples of unopened Antioch Farms brand frozen chicken entrees produced by Aspen Foods from retail locations for laboratory testing. MDA isolated Salmonella from 25 of these samples. A review of the PulseNet database was conducted to identify any illnesses from strains of Salmonella isolated from these food samples. Whole genome sequencing determined that two Salmonella Enteritidis isolates from people in Minnesota were closely related genetically to one another and to an isolate from a food sample. During interviews, both ill people reported consuming Antioch Farms brand raw, frozen, stuffed and breaded chicken entrees produced by Aspen Foods in the week before their illness began. As a result of these findings, both ill people were added to the total case count for this outbreak., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from three ill people infected with the outbreak strains. Of the three isolates tested, all (100%) were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel., , As part of the ongoing investigation, on September 17, 2015, USDA-FSIS reportedExternal that recently produced frozen, raw, stuffed and breaded chicken products produced by Aspen Foods have been confirmed as having the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis. USDA-FSIS reports that it cannot have confidence in the safety of any of these products produced after July 30, 2015. Products bear the establishment number “P-1358”\x9d on the packaging and have “best if used by”\x9d dates between October 29, 2016 and December 16, 2016. These dates were calculated by USDA-FSIS using production dates and the 15-month shelf life of the products. Consumers who have purchased these products produced by Aspen Foods are urged not to eat them, in addition to any previously recalled products., CDC, several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) are currently investigating two separate outbreaks of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed chicken entrees. The two outbreaks are caused by different strains of Salmonella Enteritidis. The likely source for the two outbreaks is different., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback information indicate that raw, frozen, stuffed, and breaded chicken entrees produced by Aspen Foods are the likely source of this outbreak. A Minnesota Department of HealthExternal (MDH) and Department of Agriculture (MDA) investigation found that the three illnesses in Minnesota occurred after people had eaten Antioch Farms brand cordon bleu stuffed chicken breast, which is produced by Aspen Foods., MDH and MDA collected 30 samples of unopened Antioch Farms brand frozen chicken entrees produced by Aspen Foods from retail locations for laboratory testing. MDA isolated Salmonella from 25 of these samples. In addition, MDH and MDA collected one sample of unopened Antioch Farms brand chicken broccoli and cheese from an ill person’s home for laboratory testing, and isolated Salmonella from this sample. Laboratory testing is ongoing., On July 15, 2015, Aspen Foods recalledExternal approximately 1.9 million pounds of frozen, raw, stuffed and breaded chicken products that may be contaminated with Salmonella Enteritidis. The recall included products sold under many different brand names, including Antioch Farms, and were shipped to retail stores and food service locations nationwide. The chicken products were produced between April 15, 2015 and July 10, 2015. The products subject to recall bear the establishment number “P-1358” on the packaging., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available., At this time, this outbreak has not been connected with an outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed chicken entrees produced by Barber Foods. For the latest information about that outbreak investigation, please visit the outbreak webpage., Since the last update on July 8, 2015, two more ill people have been reported from Minnesota and Wisconsin. A total of six people infected with a strain of Salmonella Enteritidis have been reported from Minnesota (5) and Wisconsin (1). Illness onset dates range from April 5, 2015 to June 23, 2015. Two people were hospitalized., No new illnesses have been identified since the last update on July 8, 2015. The Minnesota Department of HealthExternal identified three people infected with a different strain of Salmonella Enteritidis with illness onset dates ranging from May 9, 2015 to June 8, 2015. Two people were hospitalized., On July 12, 2015, Barber Foods expanded its recallExternal to include 1.7 million pounds of frozen, raw stuffed chicken products that may be contaminated with Salmonella Enteritidis. The recall included Chicken Kiev as well as other types of frozen chicken products. The chicken products were produced between February 17, 2015 and May 20, 2015. The products subject to recall bear the establishment number “P-276” inside the USDA mark of inspection. The products were shipped to retail locations nationwide and Canada and sold under many different brand names. A list of recalled products is availableCdc-excelExternal. This recall expanded the initial Barber Foods recall of Chicken Kiev on July 2, 2015 and resulted from investigation of the first outbreak., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available., The Minnesota Department of HealthExternal (MDH) and the Minnesota Department of Agriculture (MDA), along with CDC and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS), are investigating two outbreaks of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, breaded and pre-browned stuffed chicken entrees., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of these outbreaks. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA “fingerprints” to identify possible outbreaks. Two DNA “fingerprints” (outbreak strains) are included in these outbreak investigations. The two strains represent the most common Salmonella Enteritidis strains in the PulseNet database. Because the two strains are so common, most of the illnesses identified as having matching PFGE patterns may not be related to this outbreak. Investigators are using additional laboratory methods, including whole genome sequencing, to help clarify which illnesses may be related to these outbreaks., In the first outbreak, MDHExternal identified four people infected with a strain of Salmonella Enteritidis with illness onset dates ranging from April 5, 2015 to June 8, 2015. Two people were hospitalized. Epidemiologic and traceback evidence linked these illnesses to eating Barber Foods brand Chicken Kiev raw stuffed chicken breast. This investigation is ongoing., In the second outbreak, MDHExternal identified three people infected with a different strain of Salmonella Enteritidis with illness onset dates ranging from May 9, 2015 to June 8, 2015. Two people were hospitalized. The MDH and MDA investigation found that illnesses occurred after the people had eaten Antioch Farms brand Cordon Bleu raw stuffed chicken breast. This investigation is also ongoing., On July 1, 2015, USDA-FSIS issued a public health alertExternal due to concerns about illnesses caused by Salmonella that may be associated with raw, frozen, breaded and pre-browned, stuffed chicken products. In the alert, USDA-FSIS advises all consumers to safely prepare and cook these products to a temperature of 165°F., As a result of the first outbreak investigation, on July 2, 2015, Barber Foods recalledExternal approximately 58,320 pounds of Chicken Kiev because it may be contaminated with Salmonella Enteritidis. The product subject to recall includes a 2 lb.-4 oz. box containing six individually pouched pieces of “Barber Foods Premium Entrees Breaded-Boneless Raw Stuffed Chicken Breasts with Rib Meat Kiev” with use by/sell by dates of April 28, 2016, May 20, 2016, and July 21, 2016. The product was available for purchase at Sam’s Club retail stores in Illinois, Minnesota, and Wisconsin., Illnesses in other states linked to either outbreak have not been identified but the investigation is ongoing. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'cc8d741e2160bceda5f20686f1d36c2528216e5e2ba5332a70b3ad52197b3d12', 'headline': 'Salmonella Enteritidis Infections Linked to Raw, Frozen, Stuffed Chicken Entrees (Final Update) | October 2015 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 19, 23, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/frozen-chicken-entrees-07-15/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted October 16, 2015 11:30 AM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, the recalled frozen chicken products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s freezers. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick. Read the Advice to Consumers., This outbreak was not connected with an outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed chicken entrees produced by Aspen Foods and sold under many different brands., , CDC, several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) investigated an outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed and breaded chicken entrees produced by Barber Foods. This outbreak was not connected with an outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed chicken entrees produced by Aspen Foods., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks of enteric illness. Two DNA fingerprints (outbreak strains) of Salmonella Enteritidis, shown to be closely related genetically, were involved in this outbreak., A total of 15 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis were reported from seven states. The number of ill people reported from each state was as follows: Connecticut (1), Illinois (2), Minnesota (8), New Hampshire (1), New York (1), Oklahoma (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Illness onset dates ranged from April 5, 2015 to July 27, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from 4 years to 82, with a median age of 32, and 60% were female. Among 10 people with available information, 4 (40%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback information indicated that raw, frozen, stuffed and breaded chicken entrees produced by Barber Foods was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 10 people for whom information was known, 9 (90%) reported eating a frozen, raw, stuffed and breaded chicken entree produced by Barber Foods in the week before becoming ill., The Minnesota Department of Health (MDH) and Department of Agriculture (MDA) collected 15 samples of unopened frozen chicken entrees produced by Barber Foods from retail locations for laboratory testing. MDA isolated Salmonella from 14 of these samples; an outbreak strain was isolated from one sample. In addition, MDH and MDA collected four samples of unopened Barber Foods chicken Kiev from two ill persons’ homes for laboratory testing. MDA and MDH isolated a Salmonella outbreak strain from three of these samples which were collected from both households., As a result of the outbreak investigation, on July 2, 2015, Barber Foods recalledExternal approximately 58,320 pounds of Chicken Kiev because it may be contaminated with Salmonella Enteritidis. The product subject to recall included a 2 lb., 4 oz. box containing six individually pouched pieces of “Barber Foods Premium Entrees Breaded-Boneless Raw Stuffed Chicken Breasts with Rib Meat Kiev” with use by/sell by dates of April 28, 2016, May 20, 2016, and July 21, 2016. The product was available for purchase at Sam’s Club retail stores in Illinois, Minnesota, and Wisconsin., On July 12, 2015, Barber Foods expanded its recallExternal to include 1.7 million pounds of frozen, raw stuffed chicken products that may be contaminated with Salmonella Enteritidis. The recall included Chicken Kiev as well as other types of frozen chicken products. The chicken products were produced between February 17, 2015 and May 20, 2015. The products subject to recall bear the establishment number “P-276”\x9d inside the USDA mark of inspection. The products were shipped to retail locations nationwide and Canada and sold under many different brand names., On July 13, 2015, Omaha Steaks announced a recallExternal of stuffed chicken breast products manufactured by Barber Foods that may be contaminated with Salmonella. A small amount of the product was sold under the Omaha Steaks label and bears the establishment number “P-4230A”\x9d inside the USDA mark of inspection., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), USDA, and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from four ill people infected with the outbreak strains. Of the four isolates tested, all (100%) were resistant to ampicillin and tetracycline. Antibiotic resistance may be associated with increased risk of hospitalization, development of a bloodstream infection, or treatment failure in patients., This outbreak appears to be over. However, the recalled raw, frozen, stuffed and breaded chicken products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s freezers. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick., , Since the last update on July 29, 2015, six more ill people were reported from five states., A total of 15 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis were reported from seven states. The number of ill people reported from each state was as follows: Connecticut (1), Illinois (2), Minnesota (8), New Hampshire (1), New York (1), Oklahoma (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Illness onset dates ranged from April 5, 2015 to July 27, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from 4 years to 82, with a median age of 32, and 60% were female. Among 10 people with available information, 4 (40%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., , Since the last update on July 16, 2015, two additional ill people have been reported from Illinois (1) and Minnesota (1). A total of nine people infected with a strain of Salmonella Enteritidis have been reported from Illinois (1), Minnesota (6), Oklahoma (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Illness onset dates range from April 5, 2015 to July 5, 2015. Ill people range in age from 4 years to 82 with a median age of 46, and 56% are female. Three of six people for whom information is available (50%) have been hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after July 14, 2015 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., In ongoing interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of eight people for whom information is known, seven (88%) reported eating a frozen, raw, stuffed chicken entrée produced by Barber Foods in the week before becoming ill., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from four ill people infected with the outbreak strain. Of the four isolates tested, all (100%) were resistant to ampicillin and tetracycline. Antibiotic resistance may be associated with increased risk of hospitalization, development of a bloodstream infection, or treatment failure in patients., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available., At this time, this outbreak has not been connected with an outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed chicken entrees produced by Aspen Foods and sold under many different brands., Since the last update on July 13, 2015, one additional ill person has been reported from Oklahoma. A total of seven people infected with a strain of Salmonella Enteritidis have been reported from Minnesota (5), Oklahoma (1), and Wisconsin (1). Illness onset dates range from April 5, 2015 to June 23, 2015. Two people were hospitalized., CDC, several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service are currently investigating two separate outbreaks of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed chicken entrees. The two outbreaks are caused by different strains of Salmonella Enteritidis. The likely source for the two outbreaks is different., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback information indicate that raw, frozen, stuffed chicken entrees produced by Barber Foods are the likely source of this outbreak. In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of six people for whom information is known, five (83%) reported eating a frozen, raw, stuffed chicken entrée produced by Barber Foods in the week before becoming ill., The Minnesota Department of Health (MDH) and Department of Agriculture (MDA) collected 15 samples of unopened frozen chicken entrees produced by Barber Foods from retail locations for laboratory testing. MDA isolated Salmonella from 14 of these samples; the outbreak strain was isolated from one sample. In addition, MDH and MDA collected two samples of unopened Barber Foods chicken Kiev from an ill person’s home for laboratory testing. MDA and MDH isolated the Salmonella outbreak strain from one of these samples. Laboratory testing is ongoing., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available., At this time, this outbreak has not been connected with an outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, stuffed chicken entrees produced by Aspen Foods. For the latest information about that outbreak investigation, please visit the outbreak webpage., Since the last update on July 8, 2015, two more ill people have been reported from Minnesota and Wisconsin. A total of six people infected with a strain of Salmonella Enteritidis have been reported from Minnesota (5) and Wisconsin (1). Illness onset dates range from April 5, 2015 to June 23, 2015. Two people were hospitalized., No new illnesses have been identified since the last update on July 8, 2015. The Minnesota Department of HealthExternal identified three people infected with a different strain of Salmonella Enteritidis with illness onset dates ranging from May 9, 2015 to June 8, 2015. Two people were hospitalized., On July 12, 2015, Barber Foods expanded its recallExternal to include 1.7 million pounds of frozen, raw stuffed chicken products that may be contaminated with Salmonella Enteritidis. The recall included Chicken Kiev as well as other types of frozen chicken products. The chicken products were produced between February 17, 2015 and May 20, 2015. The products subject to recall bear the establishment number “P-276” inside the USDA mark of inspection. The products were shipped to retail locations nationwide and Canada and sold under many different brand names. A list of recalled products is availableCdc-excelExternal. This recall expanded the initial Barber Foods recall of Chicken Kiev on July 2, 2015 and resulted from investigation of the first outbreak., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available., The Minnesota Department of HealthExternal (MDH) and the Minnesota Department of Agriculture (MDA), along with CDC and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS), are investigating two outbreaks of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to raw, frozen, breaded and pre-browned stuffed chicken entrees., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of these outbreaks. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA “fingerprints” to identify possible outbreaks. Two DNA “fingerprints” (outbreak strains) are included in these outbreak investigations. The two strains represent the most common Salmonella Enteritidis strains in the PulseNet database. Because the two strains are so common, most of the illnesses identified as having matching PFGE patterns may not be related to this outbreak. Investigators are using additional laboratory methods, including whole genome sequencing, to help clarify which illnesses may be related to these outbreaks., In the first outbreak, MDHExternal identified four people infected with a strain of Salmonella Enteritidis with illness onset dates ranging from April 5, 2015 to June 8, 2015. Two people were hospitalized. Epidemiologic and traceback evidence linked these illnesses to eating Barber Foods brand Chicken Kiev raw stuffed chicken breast. This investigation is ongoing., In the second outbreak, MDHExternal identified three people infected with a different strain of Salmonella Enteritidis with illness onset dates ranging from May 9, 2015 to June 8, 2015. Two people were hospitalized. The MDH and MDA investigation found that illnesses occurred after the people had eaten Antioch Farms brand Cordon Bleu raw stuffed chicken breast. This investigation is also ongoing., On July 1, 2015, USDA-FSIS issued a public health alertExternal due to concerns about illnesses caused by Salmonella that may be associated with raw, frozen, breaded and pre-browned, stuffed chicken products. In the alert, USDA-FSIS advises all consumers to safely prepare and cook these products to a temperature of 165°F., As a result of the first outbreak investigation, on July 2, 2015, Barber Foods recalledExternal approximately 58,320 pounds of Chicken Kiev because it may be contaminated with Salmonella Enteritidis. The product subject to recall includes a 2 lb.-4 oz. box containing six individually pouched pieces of “Barber Foods Premium Entrees Breaded-Boneless Raw Stuffed Chicken Breasts with Rib Meat Kiev” with use by/sell by dates of April 28, 2016, May 20, 2016, and July 21, 2016. The product was available for purchase at Sam’s Club retail stores in Illinois, Minnesota, and Wisconsin., Illnesses in other states linked to either outbreak have not been identified but the investigation is ongoing. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '9b2caad311bd6c6f879ea95c51d32fff2f1aace3fced04db826f86c0a16e9dc9', 'headline': 'Four Multistate Outbreaks of Human Salmonella Infections Linked to Live Poultry in Backyard Flocks (Final Update)  | Salmonella Infections Linked to Live Poultry | July 2015 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 15, 42, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/live-poultry-07-15/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted September 24, 2015 4:15 PM ET,  These investigations are over. However, live poultry, including those kept in backyard flocks, remain an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States. More information about Salmonella from live poultry and the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection is available., , CDC collaborated with public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials in many states and with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate four multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella infections. Results from these investigations indicated that contact with live poultry was the likely source of these outbreaks., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of these outbreaks. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. A total of 10 DNA fingerprints (“outbreak strains”\x9d) were included in these investigations., In the four outbreaks, 252 people infected with one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella were reported from 43 states between January 3, 2015 and September 6, 2015., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill; 146 (80%) of the 183 ill people interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens, ducks, ducklings) before becoming ill. Ninety-four ill people who had purchase records available reported purchasing live baby poultry from 41 different suppliers, including feed supply stores, Co-Ops, “flea markets”\x9d, friends, and hatcheries in multiple states. Ill people reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat or to keep as pets. Twenty-eight (41%) of 69 ill people with complete questionnaires reported keeping baby poultry indoors, 39 (57%) of 69 reported holding or snuggling baby poultry, and 4 (6%) of 69 reported kissing baby poultry. These behaviors increase a person’s risk of a Salmonella infection., CDC’s National Antibiotic Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from 20 people infected with one of the outbreak strains. One (5%) isolate was resistant to sulfisoxazole, and 19 (95%) isolates were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel., Final summaries of the four outbreak investigations are provided below., Sixty-five people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis were reported from 18 states. The number of people in each state was as follows: Arizona (1), California (3), Georgia (1), Indiana (1), Maine (1), Minnesota (7), New Hampshire (3), Ohio (20), Oklahoma (1), Oregon (3), South Carolina (2), Tennessee (1), Texas (2), Utah (5), Vermont (2), Virginia (7), Washington (4), and Wyoming (1)., Illness onset dates ranged from January 3, 2015 to August 4, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from younger than one year to 81, and the median age was 32. Fifty-two percent of ill people were male. Among 50 ill people with available information, 12 (24%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., Seventy-eight people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Hadar were reported from 30 states. The number of people in each state was as follows: Arizona (2), Arkansas (2), California (3), Colorado (1), Delaware (2), Iowa (1), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (2), Maine (1), Maryland (3), Massachusetts (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), Missouri (1), Montana (4), North Carolina (2), New Jersey (2), New Mexico (1), New York (3), Ohio (3), Oregon (5), Pennsylvania (11), South Carolina (4), South Dakota (2), Texas (2), Virginia (8), Washington (4), West Virginia (1), Wisconsin (1), Wyoming (3)., Illness onset dates ranged from February 22, 2015 to August 26, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from younger than one year to 89, and the median age was 39. Fifty-two percent of ill people were female. Among 51 ill people with available information, 29 (57 %) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., Sixty-eight people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Indiana were reported from 18 states. The number of people in each state was as follows: Alabama (17), Arkansas (2), California (5), Colorado (1), Georgia (2), Idaho (1), Maryland (1), Mississippi (13), Nevada (4), New Jersey (2), New Mexico (1), New York (8), North Carolina (1), Oregon (1), Pennsylvania (1), South Carolina (6), Tennessee (1), and Texas (1)., Illness onset dates ranged from January 6, 2015 to September 6, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from younger than one year to 89, and the median age was 2. Fifty-three percent of ill people were female. Among 39 ill people with available information, 12 (31 %) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., Forty-one people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Muenchen or Salmonella Muenster were reported from 19 states. The number of people in each state was as follows: Alabama (3), California (1), Georgia (1), Hawaii (1), Illinois (1), Indiana (4), Kentucky (4), Michigan (5), New Jersey (2), New York (1), North Carolina (2), Ohio (3), Pennsylvania (1), Tennessee (5), Utah (1), Virginia (1), Washington (1), West Virginia (3), and Wisconsin (1)., Illness onset dates ranged from February 26, 2015 to August 10, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from younger than one year to 77, and the median age was 18. Fifty-six percent of ill people were male. Among 30 ill people with available information, 10 (33 %) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., , CDC continues to collaborate with public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials in many states and with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate several multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to contact with live poultry. Since the initial announcement on July 1, 2015, an additional serotype was identified. A total of 10 DNA fingerprints (outbreak strains) are now included in these outbreak investigations., In the four outbreaks, a total of 218 people infected with one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella have been reported from 41 states as of July 29, 2015. Illnesses that occurred after July 4, 2015, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., In ongoing interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill; to date, 117 (84%) of the 140 ill people interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens, ducks, ducklings) before becoming ill. Ninety-four ill people who had purchase records available reported purchasing live poultry from 32 different suppliers including feed supply stores, Co-Ops, “flea markets”\x9d, friends, and hatcheries in multiple states. Ill people reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets. Many ill people in these outbreaks reported bringing the live baby poultry into their homes, and others reported kissing or cuddling with the live poultry. These behaviors increase a person’s risk of a Salmonella infection., To date, CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from 16 ill people infected with one of the outbreak strains; all isolates were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel. CDC’s NARMS laboratory continues to conduct antibiotic resistance testing on additional clinical isolates. Results will be reported when they become available., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. CDC will provide updates when more information is available. Summaries of each of the four outbreak investigations are provided below., Since the initial announcement on July 1, 2015, 10 additional people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis have been reported from 5 states as of July 29, 2015. The additional ill people have been reported from the following states: California (2), New Hampshire (2), Ohio (4), Virginia (1), and Washington (1)., Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between January 5, 2015 and July 4, 2015. Ill people range in age from younger than one year to 74, and the median age is 21. Forty-eight percent of ill people are female. Among 30 ill people with available information, 7 (23%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Since the initial announcement on July 1, 2015, 5 additional people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Hadar have been reported from 4 states as of July 29, 2015. The additional ill people have been reported from the following states: California (2), New York (1), Virginia (1), and Washington (1)., Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 24, 2015 and July 6, 2015. Ill people range in age from younger than one year to 89, and the median age is 38. Fifty-three percent of ill people are female. Among 48 ill people with available information, 26 (54%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Since the initial announcement on July 1, 2015, 5 additional people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Indiana have been reported from 4 states as of July 29, 2015. The additional ill people have been reported from the following states: California (1), New York (2), Pennsylvania (1), and South Carolina (1)., Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between January 5, 2015 and June 24, 2015. Ill people range in age from younger than one year to 82, and the median age is 2. Fifty-three percent of ill people are female. Among 30 ill people with available information, 9 (30%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Since the initial announcement on July 1, 2015, 17 additional people have become infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Muenchen or Salmonella Muenster from 12 states as of July 29, 2015. The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (2), Georgia (1), Illinois (1), Kentucky (1), Michigan (3), North Carolina (2), New Jersey (2), New York (1), Virginia (1), Washington (1), Wisconsin (1), and West Virginia (1). Two DNA fingerprint (outbreak strains) are included in this investigation., Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between and March 8, 2015 and July 11, 2015. Ill people range in age from younger than one year to 77, and the median age is 15. Forty-seven percent of ill people are female. Among 24 ill people with available information, 8 (33%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., CDC is collaborating with public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials in many states and with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate four multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to contact with live poultry., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of these outbreaks. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. A total of nine DNA fingerprints (outbreak strains) are included in these four outbreak investigations., In the four outbreaks, a total of 181 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella have been reported from 40 states as of June 29, 2015. The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (17), Arizona (3), Arkansas (4), California (3), Colorado (2), Delaware (2), Georgia (4), Indiana (3), Iowa (1), Kentucky (4), Louisiana (2), Maine (2), Maryland (4), Massachusetts (1), Michigan (3), Minnesota (6), Mississippi (13), Missouri (1), Montana (3), Nevada (2), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (3), New Mexico (2), New York (6), North Carolina (3), Ohio (15), Oklahoma (1), Oregon (5), Pennsylvania (12), South Carolina (10), South Dakota (2), Tennessee (6), Texas (5), Utah (4), Vermont (2), Virginia (11), Washington (6), West Virginia (2), Wisconsin (1), and Wyoming (4)., These outbreaks can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after June 1, 2015, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill; 82 (86%) of the 95 ill people interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens, ducks, ducklings) before becoming ill. Sixty-four ill people who had purchase records available reported purchasing live baby poultry from 17 different feed supply stores and hatcheries in multiple states. Ill people reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets. Many ill people in these outbreaks reported bringing the live poultry into their homes, and others reported kissing or cuddling with the live poultry. These behaviors increase a person’s risk of a Salmonella infection., Preliminary findings of multiple traceback investigations of live baby poultry from homes of ill people have identified multiple hatcheries as the source of chicks and ducklings. These investigations are ongoing., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from seven ill people infected with one of the outbreak strains; all seven isolates were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel. CDC’s NARMS laboratory continues to conduct antibiotic resistance testing on additional clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected with the outbreak strains. Results will be reported when they become available., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. CDC will provide updates when more information is available. Summaries of each of the four outbreak investigations are provided below., As of June 29, 2015, 40 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis have been reported from 16 states. The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: Arizona (1), Georgia (2), Indiana (1), Maine (1), Minnesota (5), New Hampshire (1), Ohio (10), Oklahoma (1), South Carolina (2), Tennessee (1), Texas (2), Utah (3), Vermont (2), Virginia (4), Washington (3), and Wyoming (1). Two DNA fingerprints (outbreak strains) are included in this investigation. , Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between January 6, 2015 and June 13, 2015. Ill people range in age from younger than one year to 81 years, and the median age is 41. Fifty-two percent of ill people are female. Among the 14 ill people with available information, 3 (21%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., As of June 29, 2015, 69 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Hadar have been reported from 30 states. The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: Arizona (2), Arkansas (2), California (1), Colorado (1), Delaware (2), Iowa (1), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (2), Maine (1), Maryland (3), Massachusetts (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), Missouri (1), Montana (3), New Jersey (2), New Mexico (1), New York (1), North Carolina (2), Ohio (3), Oregon (4), Pennsylvania (11), South Carolina (3), South Dakota (2), Texas (2), Virginia (7), Washington (3), Wisconsin (1), West Virginia (1), and Wyoming (3). One DNA fingerprint (outbreak strain) is included in this investigation., Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 24, 2015 and June 11, 2015. Ill people range in age from younger than one year to 89 years, and the median age is 37. Fifty-one percent of ill people are female. Among 30 ill people with available information, 19 (63%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., As of June 29, 2015, 56 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Indiana have been reported from 16 states. The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (17), Arkansas (2), California (2), Colorado (1), Georgia (2), Maryland (1), Mississippi (13), Nevada (2), New Jersey (1), New Mexico (1), New York (5), North Carolina (1), Oregon (1), South Carolina (5), Tennessee (1), and Texas (1).  Five DNA fingerprints (outbreak strains) are included in this investigation., Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 20, 2015 and June 11, 2015. Ill people range in age from younger than one year to 82 years, and the median age is 2. Fifty-two percent of ill people are female. Among the 28 ill people with available information, nine (32%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., As of June 26, 2015, 16 people infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Muenchen have been reported from eight states. The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: Indiana (2), Kentucky (3), Michigan (2), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (1), Tennessee (4), Utah (1), and West Virginia (1). One DNA fingerprint (outbreak strain) is included in this investigation., Among the people who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between and April 4, 2015 and June 5, 2015. Ill people range in age from younger than one year to 75 years, and the median age is 21. Sixty-three percent of ill people are female. Among eight ill people with available information, two (25%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '31f29fa710749b15a3345a59b48bb042e2903108503472d48a65454972dcb452', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) and Salmonella Weltevreden Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna (Final Update)  | Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) and Salmonella Weltevreden Infections Linked to Frozen Raw Tuna (Final Update) | May 2015 | Salmonella | CDC\n\n\n', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 13, 22, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/paratyphi-b-05-15/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted August 19, 2015 5:30 PM ET, This investigation is over; however, the recalled frozen tuna has a long shelf life and may still be in freezers. Restaurants and retailers unaware of the recalls could continue to serve and sell sushi made with recalled frozen tuna and people could get sick. Read the Advice to Restaurants, Retailers, and Consumers., , CDC collaborated with public health and regulatory officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) to investigate an outbreak of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) and Salmonella Weltevreden infections linked to frozen raw tuna., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. A total of three rare DNA fingerprints were included in this investigation (“outbreak strains”\x9d)., A total of 65 people infected with one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) (64 people) or Salmonella Weltevreden (1 person) were reported from 11 states. The number of ill people reported from each state was as follows: Arizona (12), California (35), Illinois (1), Michigan (2), Minnesota (4), Mississippi (1), New Mexico (6), South Dakota (1), Virginia (1), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Illness onset dates ranged from March 5, 2015 to July 20, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 83 with a median age of 31, and 54% were male. Among 62 people with available information, 11 (18%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback findings indicated that frozen raw tuna was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 49 ill people for whom information was known, 46 (94%) reported consuming sushi in the week before they became ill. This proportion was significantly higher when compared with results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy people in which 5% reported eating “sushi, sashimi, or ceviche made with raw fish or shellfish” in the 7 days before they were interviewed. Of the 45 people with information about their sushi exposure, 44 (98%) reported eating a sushi item containing raw tuna, and 28 (80%) of 35 with information reported eating a sushi item containing raw “spicy tuna.”\x9d, The Maricopa County Environmental Services Department working with the Arizona State Public Health Laboratory collected and tested unopened frozen ground tuna products from various retail locations. The Arizona laboratory isolated Salmonella Newport in one sample and Salmonella Weltevreden in another sample. The unopened frozen ground tuna products represented two different lots of product imported from Indonesia by Osamu Corporation. On May 27, Osamu Corporation recalled Cdc-pdf[PDF – 1 page]External the two lots of ground frozen yellowfin tuna imported from Indonesia due to possible Salmonella contamination. A search of the PulseNet database did not identify any known human illnesses linked to the recall; however, state health departments continued to collect and test samples of frozen raw tuna products., The Minnesota Department of HealthExternal and Department of Agriculture isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) from samples of unopened frozen raw tuna products collected from a Minnesota grocery store where an ill person in this outbreak reported eating tuna sushi. The contaminated frozen raw tuna products collected from the store represented one lot of product from one processing plant in Indonesia imported by Osamu Corporation. On July 21, 2015, Osamu Corporation announced a voluntary recall of the lotExternal of contaminated frozen raw tuna. Additionally, Osamu Corporation voluntarily recalled all frozen yellowfin tunaExternal (loin, saku, chunk, slice, and ground market forms) sold to restaurants and grocery stores throughout the U.S. from May 9, 2014 to July 9, 2015 from the same processing plant in Indonesia., Further laboratory testing of the product samples collected in Minnesota also isolated two different strains of Salmonella Weltevreden. A search of the PulseNet database identified one ill person from Arizona infected with one of the strains of Salmonella Weltevreden. This ill person reported consuming sushi containing raw tuna in the week before illness onset. As a result of these findings, this ill person was added to the total case count for the outbreak.  The two Salmonella Weltevreden strains isolated from these samples were different from the Salmonella Weltevreden strain previously isolated from product tested in Arizona., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from three ill people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) . Of the three isolates, one (33%) isolate was resistant to ampicillin and two (67%) were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel., This investigation is over; however, the recalled frozen tuna has a long shelf life and may still be in freezers. Restaurants and retailers unaware of the recalls could continue to serve and sell sushi made with recalled frozen tuna and people could get sick., , Since the last update on July 22, 2015, two additional ill people were reported. One person was reported from California and was infected with Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) and the other person was reported from Arizona and was infected with Salmonella Weltevreden., A total of 65 people infected with one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) (64 people) or Salmonella Weltevreden (1 person) were reported from 11 states. The number of ill people reported from each state was as follows: Arizona (12), California (35), Illinois (1), Michigan (2), Minnesota (4), Mississippi (1), New Mexico (6), South Dakota (1), Virginia (1), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Illness onset dates ranged from March 5, 2015 to July 20, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 83 with a median age of 31, and 54% were male. Among 62 people with available information, 11 (18%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., , Since the last update on July 15, 2015, two new ill people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) have been reported from Minnesota. As of July 20, 2015, 62 people have been reported from 11 states. The number of ill people reported from each state is as follows: Arizona (11), California (34), Illinois (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (4), Mississippi (1), New Mexico (6), South Dakota (1), Virginia (1), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Illness onset dates range from March 5, 2015 to July 7, 2015. Ill people range in age from younger than 1 year to 83 with a median age of 32, and 56% are male. Among 59 people with available information, 11 (19%) have been hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after June 19, 2015 might not yet be reported due to the time between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., On July 21, 2015, Osamu Corporation announced two voluntary recalls of frozen yellowfin tuna from one processing plant in Indonesia. Osamu recalled all frozen yellowfin tunaExternal (loin, saku, chunk, slice, and ground market forms) sold to restaurants and grocery stores throughout the U.S. from May 9, 2014 to July 9, 2015. Affected products can be identified by four-digit purchase order numbers 8563 through 8599 located on each product carton box. Additionally, Osamu recalled one lot of frozen yellowfin tuna chunk meatExternal distributed to AFC Corporation from May 20, 2015 to May 26, 2015 after the Minnesota Department of HealthExternal and Department of Agriculture isolated the outbreak strain from samples of unopened frozen raw tuna collected from a Minnesota grocery store where an ill person in this outbreak reported eating tuna sushi. The affected lot can be identified by lot number 68568., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them about foods they ate before they became ill. CDC will provide updates when more information is available., Since the last update on June 5, 2015, seven new ill people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) have been reported from Arizona (1), California (3), Michigan (1), and Minnesota (2). As of July 14, 2015, 60 people have been reported from 11 states. The number of ill people reported from each state is as follows: Arizona (11), California (34), Illinois (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (2), Mississippi (1), New Mexico (6), South Dakota (1), Virginia (1), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Illness onset dates range from March 5, 2015 to June 30, 2015. Ill people range in age from younger than 1 year to 83 with a median age of 32, and 56% are male. Among 57 people with available information, 11 (19%) have been hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after June 13, 2015 might not yet be reported due to the time between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., Epidemiologic and laboratory findings indicate that frozen raw tuna is the likely source of the infections. In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 46 ill people for whom information is known, 43 (93%) reported consuming sushi in the week before they became ill. This proportion is significantly higher when compared with results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy people in which 5% reported eating “sushi, sashimi, or ceviche made with raw fish or shellfish” in the 7 days before they were interviewed. Of the 42 people with information about their sushi exposure, 41 (98%) reported eating a sushi item containing raw tuna, and 25 (86%) of 29 with information reported eating a sushi item containing raw “spicy tuna.” The traceback investigation is ongoing, but preliminary investigation identified that frozen raw tuna was used to make the raw tuna sushi reported by ill persons., The Minnesota Department of HealthExternal and Department of Agriculture isolated the outbreak strain from samples of unopened frozen raw tuna products collected from a Minnesota grocery store where an ill person in this outbreak reported eating tuna sushi. The contaminated frozen raw tuna products collected from the store represented one lot of product imported from Indonesia by Osamu Corporation., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is a partnership among the CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from three ill people infected with the outbreak strain. Of the three isolates, one (33%) isolate was resistant to ampicillin and two (67%) were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them about foods they ate before they became ill. CDC will provide updates when more information is available., As of June 4, 2015, no new ill people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) have been identified. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them about foods they ate before they became ill., As a result of the ongoing investigation, the Maricopa County Environmental Services Department working with the Arizona State Public Health Laboratory tested unopened frozen ground tuna products. Arizona identified Salmonella Newport in one sample and Salmonella Weltevreden in another sample. The unopened frozen ground tuna products represented two different lots of product imported from Indonesia by Osamu Corporation of Gardena, California. On May 27, Osamu Corporation recalled Cdc-pdf[PDF – 1 page]External the two lots of ground frozen yellowfin tuna imported from Indonesia due to possible Salmonella contamination., A search of the PulseNet database did not identify any known human illnesses linked to the recall. State health departments continue to test samples of raw tuna products but the strain of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) linked to the outbreak has not been identified., FDAExternal reports it has increased its monitoring of tuna. Additionally, FDA is conducting a traceback investigation. FDA is evaluating and analyzing records to determine whether there is a common source of raw tuna linked to the outbreak., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) infections. The investigation has not conclusively identified the source of this outbreak, but most ill people interviewed reported eating sushi made with raw tuna in the week before becoming ill. The investigation is ongoing and has not identified a common brand or supplier of raw tuna linked to illnesses., This outbreak is caused by Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) bacteria. The illness caused by this bacteria typically includes diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps 12-72 hours after being exposed. Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) does not cause paratyphoid fever, enteric fever, or typhoid fever., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. This PFGE pattern has never been seen before in the PulseNet database., As of May 21, 2015, a total of 53 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Paratyphi B variant L(+) tartrate(+) have been reported from 9 states. Most of the ill people have been reported from the southwestern United States, or reported travel to this part of the country in the week before they became ill. The number of ill people reported from each state is as follows: Arizona (10), California (31), Illinois (1), Mississippi (1), New Mexico (6), South Dakota (1), Virginia (1), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Illness onset dates range from March 5, 2015 to May 3, 2015. Ill people range in age from younger than 1 to 83 with a median age of 31, and 47% are female. Among 46 people with available information, 10 (22%) have been hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after April 21, 2015 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Interviews conducted to date suggest consumption of sushi made with raw tuna as a possible source of the infections. Of 37 ill people for whom information is known, 36 (97%) reported consuming sushi in the week before they became ill. This proportion is significantly higher when compared with results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy people in which 5% reported eating “sushi, sashimi, or ceviche made with raw fish or shellfish” in the 7 days before they were interviewed. Of the 36 people reporting eating sushi, 34 (94%) reported eating a sushi item containing raw tuna, and 21 (81%) of 26 with information reported eating a sushi item containing raw “spicy tuna.”, Investigating clusters of illnesses can provide critical clues about the source of an outbreak. In this investigation, state and local officials have identified five clusters where ill people ate sushi at the same establishments. A cluster of illnesses is defined as more than one unrelated ill person (i.e., they do not know or live with each other) who report eating at the same restaurant location, attending a common event, or shopping at the same location of a grocery store before becoming ill. If several unrelated ill people ate or shopped at the same location of a restaurant or store within several days of each other, it suggests that the contaminated food item was served or sold there. Also, records kept at these locations may make it easier to trace suspected food items to identify a common point of contamination. State and local officials, along with FDA, are investigating these clusters to help identify a common brand or supplier of raw tuna possibly linked to this outbreak., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them about foods they ate before they became ill. This investigation is evolving. CDC will provide updates when more information is available., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'ab28350441a64e9b2d8fe6c7d9d2edb755ebe8177c051c033e5fe4a67d108840', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Human Salmonella Muenchen Infections Linked to Contact with Pet Crested Geckos (Final Update)  | Human Salmonella Muenchen Infections Linked to Contact with Pet Crested Geckos | May 2015 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 13, 58, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/muenchen-05-15/index.html', 'main_text': 'This investigation is over. However, reptiles continue to be a cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States. More information about Salmonella from reptiles and how you can reduce your risk of infection is available in English and en Español., Posted June 18, 2015 1:30 PM ET, CDC collaborated with public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture National Veterinary Services LaboratoriesExternal (NVSL) to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella Muenchen infections linked to contact with pet crested geckos purchased from multiple stores in different states. Crested geckos are popular pet lizards that come in a variety of colors.  , Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., A total of 22 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Muenchen were reported from 17 states between January 1, 2014 and June 16, 2015. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Florida (1), Iowa (1), Illinois (1), Indiana (1), Kansas (1), Maryland (1), Massachusetts (1),  Minnesota (1), Montana (1), New Hampshire (1), New York (1), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (2), Tennessee (1), Virginia (1), Washington (2), and Wisconsin (3)., Dates that illnesses began ranged from January 1, 2014 to May 9, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 57 years, with a median age of 14. Fifty-five percent of ill people were female. Three (14%) people were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health agencies indicated that contact with pet geckos was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Eleven (85%) of 13 people interviewed reported contact with reptiles or their environments before becoming ill. The percentage of ill people in this outbreak reporting contact with a reptile is substantially higher than the percentage of U.S. households that reported owning a pet reptile in a 2013-2014 survey conducted by the American Pet Products Association (4.6%). When asked about the type of reptile, all 11 people reported contact with crested geckos., The Minnesota Public Health Laboratory isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Muenchen from a sample collected from an ill person’s pet crested gecko., CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on Salmonella Muenchen isolates from three ill people infected with the outbreak strain; all three isolates were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel., This investigation is over; however, illnesses linked to contact with pet crested geckos could continue to be reported at a low level because pet crested gecko owners might be unaware of the risk of Salmonella infection. This outbreak was a reminder on the need for people to follow simple steps to enjoy their pet and keep family members healthy. CDC does not recommend that pet owners get rid of their geckos. However, if pet owners decide to do so, they should contact a local reputable pet store or reptile rescue for a safe way to relinquish their pet. Do not let a pet gecko loose into the environment., A total of 22 people infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Muenchen were reported from 17 states between January 1, 2014 and June 16, 2015. Since the last update on May 14, 2015, two additional ill people were reported from Maryland and Wisconsin. The total number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Florida (1), Iowa (1), Illinois (1), Indiana (1), Kansas (1), Maryland (1), Massachusetts (1), Minnesota (1), Montana (1), New Hampshire (1), New York (1), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (2), Tennessee (1), Virginia (1), Washington (2), and Wisconsin (3)., Dates that illnesses began ranged from January 1, 2014 to May 9, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 57 years, with a median age of 14. Fifty-five percent of ill people were female. Three (14%) people were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., CDC is collaborating with public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture National Veterinary Services Laboratories (NVSL)External to investigate an outbreak of Salmonella Muenchen infections linked to contact with pet crested geckos purchased from multiple stores in different states. Crested geckos are popular pet lizards that come in a variety of colors., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill persons by using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., As of May 13, 2015, a total of 20 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Muenchen have been reported from 16 states since January 1, 2014. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Florida (1), Iowa (1), Illinois (1), Indiana (1), Kansas (1), Massachusetts (1), Minnesota (1), Montana (1), New Hampshire (1), New York (1), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (2), Tennessee (1), Virginia (1), Washington (2), and Wisconsin (2)., Dates that illnesses began range from January 1, 2014 to March 7, 2015. Ill persons range in age from younger than 1 year to 57 years, with a median age of 14 years. Fifty-eight percent of ill persons are female. Three (15%) persons have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve (epi curve). Illnesses that occurred after April 21, 2015 might not be reported because that can take 2 to 4 weeks after someone becomes ill. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health agencies indicate that contact with pet geckos is the likely source of this outbreak of human Salmonella Muenchen infections., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Ten (91%) of 11 persons interviewed reported contact with reptiles or their environments before becoming ill. When asked about the type of reptile, all 10 (100%) persons reported contact with crested geckos. The percentage of ill persons in this outbreak reporting contact with a reptile is substantially higher than the percentage of U.S. households that reported owning a pet reptile in a survey conducted in 2013-2014 by the American Pet Products Association (4.6%)., CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on Salmonella Muenchen isolates collected from two ill persons infected with the outbreak strain; both isolates were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel. CDC’s NARMS laboratory continues to conduct antibiotic resistance testing on additional clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected with the outbreak strain. Results will be reported when they become available. NARMS is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is an interagency partnership among the CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments. The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories., The pet industry is working closely with CDC to determine the source of the crested geckos linked to this outbreak in order to prevent additional illnesses. This outbreak is a reminder to follow simple steps to enjoy your pet and keep your family healthy. CDC does not recommend that pet owners get rid of their geckos. However, if pet owners decide to do so, they should contact a local reputable pet store or reptile rescue for a safe way to relinquish their pet. Do not let a pet gecko loose into the environment., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '257a2d6939647ccaa9c7d94217492fb56909988e7c18e2bc47dd26efeedac298', 'headline': 'Enteritidis Infections Linked to Bean Sprouts | November 2014 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 14, 23, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/enteritidis-11-14/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted January 23, 2015 5:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, sprouts are a known source of foodborne illness. CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and other retailers always follow food safety practicesExternal to avoid illness from eating sprouts., CDC collaborated with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections. Results from this investigation indicated that bean sprouts produced by Wonton Foods, Inc. were the likely source of this outbreak., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill persons using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. Two PFGE patterns were included this investigation. Both PFGE patterns are rarely reported to the PulseNet database. On average, fewer than 10 types of Salmonella bacteria with these PFGE patterns are reported to PulseNet each year. Whole genome sequencing, a highly discriminatory subtyping method, was also performed on 16 of the clinical isolates, and all 16 were determined to be highly related to one another., A total of 115 persons infected with the outbreak strains were reported from 12 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Connecticut (8), Maine (4), Maryland (6), Massachusetts (36), Montana (1), New Hampshire (6), New York (22), Ohio (3), Pennsylvania (18), Rhode Island (7), Vermont (3), and Virginia (1). The one ill person from Montana traveled to the Eastern United States during the period when likely exposure occurred., Illness onset dates ranged from September 30, 2014, to December 15, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 83 years, with a median age of 32 years. Sixty-four percent of ill persons were female. Among 75 persons with available information, 19 (25%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., This outbreak appears to be over. However, sprouts are a known source of foodborne illness. CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and other retailers always follow food safety practicesExternal to avoid illness from eating sprouts., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures during the week before they became ill. Of 85 ill persons for whom information was known, 61 (72%) reported consuming bean sprouts or menu items containing bean sprouts in the week before they became ill. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy persons in which 6% reported eating bean sprouts in the week before they were interviewed. Most ill persons reported consuming bean sprouts at Asian-style food service establishments., In this investigation, state and local officials identified five clusters of illnesses in three states: Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Vermont. Among the ill persons who were part of these illness clusters, all reported consuming menu items that contained bean sprouts. Investigating clusters of illnesses can provide critical clues about the source of an outbreak. A cluster of illnesses is defined as more than one unrelated ill person (i.e., they do not know or live with each other) who report eating at the same restaurant location, attending a common event, or shopping at the same location of a grocery store before becoming ill. If several unrelated ill persons ate or shopped at the same location of a restaurant or store within several days of each other, it suggests that the contaminated food item was served or sold there. In addition, traceback of suspected food items to identify a common point of contamination may be facilitated by records kept at these locations., State and local public health officials, along with FDA, performed traceback investigations on the source of bean sprouts for all five illness clusters as well as for several individual ill persons. Traceback from all of the establishments indicated that all received bean sprouts from Wonton Foods, Inc. of Brooklyn, New York. Although some restaurants also received bean sprouts from other suppliers, Wonton Foods, Inc. was the only supplier common to all of the restaurants and was the sole supplier of bean sprouts to at least two of the restaurants., On November 21, 2014, Wonton Foods, Inc. agreed to destroy any remaining products while they conducted thorough cleaning and sanitization and implemented other Salmonella control measures. On November 24, the firm completed cleaning and sanitization and restarted production of bean sprouts. The firm resumed shipment of bean sprouts on November 29, 2014. Contaminated bean sprouts produced by Wonton Foods, Inc. are likely no longer available for purchase or consumption given the maximum 12-day shelf life of mung bean sprouts., CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on Salmonella Enteritidis isolates collected from three ill persons infected with the outbreak strains. All three isolates were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel., A total of 115 persons infected with the outbreak strains were reported from 12 states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Connecticut (8), Maine (4), Maryland (6), Massachusetts (36), Montana (1), New Hampshire (6), New York (22), Ohio (3), Pennsylvania (18), Rhode Island (7), Vermont (3), and Virginia (1). The one ill person from Montana traveled to the Eastern United States during the period when exposure likely occurred. Since the last update on December 16, 2014, four additional cases were reported from Maryland (1), Massachusetts (1), New York (1), and Pennsylvania (1)., Illness onset dates ranged from September 30, 2014, to December 15, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 83 years, with a median age of 32 years. Sixty-four percent of ill persons were female. Among 75 persons with available information, 19 (25%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., This outbreak appears to be over. However, sprouts are a known source of foodborne illness. CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and other retailers always follow food safety practicesExternal to avoid illness from eating sprouts., As of December 2, a total of 87 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis have been reported from 11 states. Since the last update on November 25, 2014, 19 additional ill persons have been reported from Connecticut (3), Massachusetts (4), New York (9), Ohio (2), and Virginia (1)., Illness onset dates range from September 30, 2014 to November 14, 2014. Ill persons range in age from younger than 1 year to 83 years, with a median age of 32 years. Fifty-nine percent of ill persons are female. Among 52 persons with available information, 14 (27%) have been hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after November 12, 2014 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., On November 21, 2014, Wonton Foods, Inc. agreed to destroy any remaining products while they conducted thorough cleaning and sanitization and implemented other Salmonella control measures. On November 24, the firm completed cleaning and sanitization and restarted production of bean sprouts. The firm resumed shipment on November 29, 2014. Contaminated bean sprouts produced by Wonton Foods, Inc. are likely no longer available for purchase or consumption given the maximum 12-day shelf life of mung bean sprouts., CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on Salmonella Enteritidis isolates collected from three ill persons infected with the outbreak strains; all three isolates were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview them about foods they ate before they became ill. This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will update the public when additional information is available., As of November 24, a total of 68 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis have been reported from 10 states. The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: Connecticut (4), Maine (3), Massachusetts (31), Montana (1), New Hampshire (4), New York (5), Ohio (1), Pennsylvania (10), Rhode Island (6), and Vermont (3). The one ill person from Montana traveled to the Eastern United States during the period when likely exposure occurred., Illness onset dates range from September 30, 2014 to November 10, 2014. Ill persons range in age from younger than one year to 83 years, with a median age of 31 years. Fifty-six percent of ill persons are female. Among 43 persons with available information, 11 (26%) have been hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after November 4, 2014 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently conducting antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis. Results of this testing will be reported when they become available. NARMS is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antimicrobial resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is an interagency partnership among the CDC, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the USDA, and state and local health departments. The NARMS human surveillance program monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella, Campylobacter, Shigella, Escherichia coli O157, and Vibrio bacteria isolated from clinical specimens and submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview them about foods they ate before they became ill. This ongoing investigation is rapidly evolving, and CDC will update the public when additional information is available., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections. Results from this ongoing investigation indicate that bean sprouts produced by Wonton Foods, Inc. are the likely source of this outbreak., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Salmonella bacteria isolated from ill persons using a technique called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. Two PFGE patterns are included this investigation. Both PFGE patterns are rarely reported to the PulseNet database. On average, less than 10 Salmonella bacteria with these PFGE patterns are reported to PulseNet each year., As of November 21, 2014, a total of 63 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Enteritidis have been reported from 10 states: Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, Montana, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Vermont. The one ill person from Montana traveled to the Eastern United States during the period when likely exposure occurred. Illness onset dates range from September 30, 2014 to November 8, 2014. Among 42 persons with available information, 11 (26%) have been hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures during the week before they became ill. Of 37 ill persons for whom information is known, 29 (78%) reported consuming bean sprouts or menu items containing bean sprouts in the week before they became ill. This proportion is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 788 KB] of healthy persons in which 6% reported eating bean sprouts in the week before they were interviewed. Most ill persons reported consuming bean sprouts at Asian-style food service establishments., In this investigation, state and local officials have identified five clusters of illnesses in three states: Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Vermont. Among the ill persons who are part of these illness clusters, all reported consuming menu items that contained bean sprouts. Investigating clusters of illnesses can provide critical clues about the source of an outbreak. A cluster of illnesses is defined as more than one unrelated ill person (i.e., they do not know or live with each other) who report eating at the same restaurant location, attending a common event, or shopping at the same location of a grocery store before becoming ill. If several unrelated ill persons ate or shopped at the same location of a restaurant or store within several days of each other, it suggests that the contaminated food item was served or sold there. In addition, traceback of suspected food items to identify a common point of contamination may be facilitated by records kept at these locations., State and local public health officials also performed traceback investigations on the source of bean sprouts for all five illness clusters as well as for several individual ill persons and reported the results of these investigations to FDA and CDC. Traceback from all of the establishments indicated that all received bean sprouts from Wonton Foods, Inc. of Brooklyn, New York. Although some restaurants also received bean sprouts from other suppliers, Wonton Foods, Inc. was the only supplier common to all of the restaurants and was the sole supplier of bean sprouts to at least two of the restaurants. The firm is cooperating with public health and agriculture officials and has reported that their last shipment of bean sprouts was on November 18, 2014. As of November 21, 2014, the firm has verbally agreed to voluntarily stop the production and sale of their bean sprouts while they take steps to prevent Salmonella contamination., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview them about foods they ate before they became ill. This ongoing investigation is rapidly evolving, and CDC will update the public when additional information is available., , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '04e389ba99fdc6f4d89de9d1f840d401280979ea86f416f9c487a8d96356fa9c', 'headline': 'Salmonella Braenderup Infections Linked to Nut Butter | August 2014 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 16, 3, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/braenderup-08-14/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted October 16, 2014 4:30 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. However, the recalled nut butter products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick. Read the Advice to Consumers., This outbreak investigation is over. However, the recalled nut butter products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick., , CDC collaborated with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Braenderup infections. Results from the investigation indicated that almond and peanut butter manufactured by nSpired Natural Foods, Inc. was the likely source of this outbreak.   , Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, receives DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. Whole genome sequencing, a highly discriminatory subtyping method, was also used to define the outbreak strain. Whole genome sequencing helped clarify which illnesses were related to the outbreak., A total of six ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup were reported from five states since January 1, 2014. The number of ill persons identified in each state was as follows: Connecticut (1), Iowa (1), New Mexico (1), Tennessee (1), and Texas (2)., Illness onset dates ranged from January 20, 2014, to May 16, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from 2 years to 83 years, with a median age of 35 years. Sixty-six percent of ill persons were female. Among five ill persons with available information, one (20%) was hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak investigation is over. However, the recalled nut butter products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick. FDA’sExternal investigation is ongoing., During routine inspections at an nSpired Natural Foods facility in Ashland, Oregon, in February and July 2014, FDA isolated Salmonella Braenderup from environmental samples. PFGE and whole genome sequencing were performed on the environmental isolates by FDA to further characterize the bacteria., A subsequent search of the PulseNet database identified ill persons with the same PFGE “fingerprint”\x9d of Salmonella Braenderup. Whole genome sequencing was performed on these clinical isolates, and the bacteria from six of the ill persons were found to be related to the environmental isolates taken from the firm., Five of the six ill persons were interviewed and answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Four (80%) of them reported eating peanut or almond butter, and all four (100%) reported eating a brand of peanut or almond butter produced by nSpired Natural Foods, Inc., Between July 15 and August 29, 2014, FDA conducted an inspection at nSpired Natural Foods. FDA issued a Form 483 Inspection ReportExternal documenting eight observations made during the inspection., On August 19, 2014, nSpired Natural Foods, Inc. voluntarily recalled certain lots of almond and peanut butters because of potential contamination with Salmonella. The recalled brands included Arrowhead Mills, MaraNatha, and specific grocery store brand almond and peanut butters., Isolates also were tested to determine if they were resistant to any antibiotics. The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS)External is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, retail meats and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is an interagency partnership among CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on four isolates collected from ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup. All isolates were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel., , A total of 6 ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup were reported from 5 states since January 1, 2014. Since the initial announcement on August 21, 2014, 2 additional ill persons were reported from New Mexico (1) and Texas (1)., Illness onset dates ranged from January 20, 2014, to May 16, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from 2 years to 83 years, with a median age of 35 years. Sixty-six percent of ill persons were female. Among five ill persons with available information, one (20%) was hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak investigation is over. However, the recalled nut butter products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick. FDA’sExternal investigation is ongoing., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Braenderup infections. Results from this ongoing investigation indicate that almond and peanut butter manufactured by nSpired Natural Foods, Inc. is the likely source of this outbreak., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, receives DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. Whole genome sequencing, a highly discriminatory subtyping method, was also used to define the outbreak strain. Whole genome sequencing helped clarify which illnesses were related to the outbreak., As of August 20, 2014, a total of four ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup have been reported from four states since January 1, 2014. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Connecticut (1), Iowa (1), Tennessee (1), and Texas (1)., Illness onset dates range from January 22, 2014, to May 16, 2014. Ill persons range in age from 3 years to 83 years, with a median age of 36 years. Seventy-five percent of ill persons are female. Among three ill persons with available information, one (33%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after July 30, 2014 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. The recalled peanut and almond butter products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes, and illnesses may continue to be reported. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., During routine inspections at an nSpired Natural Foods facility in Ashland, Oregon, in January and July 2014, FDA isolated Salmonella Braenderup from environmental samples. PFGE and whole genome sequencing were performed on the environmental isolates by FDA to further characterize the bacteria., A subsequent search of the PulseNet database identified ill persons with the same PFGE “fingerprint”\x9d of Salmonella Braenderup. CDC performed whole genome sequencing on these clinical isolates and determined that the bacteria from the ill persons were related to the environmental isolates taken from the firm., To date, three of the four ill persons were interviewed and answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. All three (100%) of them reported eating peanut or almond butter, and all three (100%) reported eating a brand of peanut or almond butter produced by nSpired Natural Foods, Inc., On August 19, 2014, nSpired Natural Foods, Inc. voluntarily recalledExternal certain lots of almond and peanut butters because of potential contamination with Salmonella. The recalled brands include Arrowhead Mills, MaraNatha, and specific private label almond and peanut butters., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. FDA is continuing to work closely with CDC and state partners in this investigation., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'd05330c07023273c3889e97c66a17c622b00d752af3a31cb722bc9ce35c261c0', 'headline': 'Human Salmonella Typhimurium Infections Linked to Exposure to Clinical and Teaching Microbiology Laboratories (Final Update)  | Typhimurium Infections Linked to Microbiology Laboratories | June 2014 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 14, 2, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/typhimurium-labs-06-14/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted June 5, 2014 12:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., CDC collaborated with public health officials in several states to investigate human Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to exposure to various clinical and college and university teaching microbiology laboratories. Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be linked to microbiology laboratory exposure. PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, obtains DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. These strains of Salmonella Typhimurium were indistinguishable by PFGE pattern from commercially available Salmonella Typhimurium strains used in laboratory settings for teaching or quality control purposes. These commercially available strains are known to be present in several teaching laboratories associated with ill persons., A total of 41 persons infected with the same strains of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from several states since November 1, 2013, including Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Washington, and Wisconsin., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between November 1, 2013 and May 3, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 87 years, and the median age was 20 years. Sixty-two percent of ill persons were 21 years or younger. Seventy-six percent of ill persons were female. Among 28 ill persons with available information, 10 (36%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about different exposures in the week before becoming ill. Eighteen (86%) of 21 ill persons interviewed reported being enrolled in either a human biology course or microbiology course. Fifteen (83%) of these 18 ill persons were students, and three (22%) were employees. Many ill persons reported several behaviors while they were working in the laboratory that would increase the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection, including not wearing gloves or lab coats, lack of handwashing, and using the same writing utensils and notebooks outside of the laboratory. Additionally, many ill persons did not recall receiving laboratory safety training., In 2011, a total of 109 illnesses with one of these same strains of Salmonella Typhimurium were linked to exposure to clinical and teaching microbiology laboratories. Findings of that investigation indicated that teaching and clinical microbiology laboratory instructors should enhance training of students and staff on biosafety measures necessary in the laboratory. For more specific guidance documents, see the Key Resources page., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'a2251690cb6617616e9cc0f4f87cc45368fe0568aa4820fdc7494ab364b390b9', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Infections Linked to Organic Sprouted Chia Powder | August 2014 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 2, 20, 12, 45, 55, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/newport-05-14/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted August 13, 2014 2:30 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., A total of 31 ill persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Newport (20 persons), Salmonella Hartford (7 persons), or Salmonella Oranienburg (4 persons) were reported from 16 states. Since the last update on July 17, 2014, six additional ill persons were reported from California (1), Illinois (2), Maryland (1), and New York (2). The total number of ill persons identified in each state was as follows: Arizona (1), California (4), Colorado (1), Connecticut (3), Florida (1), Illinois (2), Maryland (1), Massachusetts (1), Michigan (1), New York (7), Ohio (1), Rhode Island (1), Texas (2), Utah (1), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (3)., Among persons for whom information was available, dates that illnesses began ranged from January 21, 2014, to July 22, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from 1 year to 81 years, with a median age of 48 years. Sixty-one percent of ill persons were female. Among 23 ill persons with available information, five (22%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak appears to be over. However, these products have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat the products and potentially get sick., As of July 14, 2014, a total of 25 ill persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Newport (16 persons), Salmonella Hartford (7 persons), or Salmonella Oranienburg (2 persons) have been reported from 14 states. Since the last update on June 11, 2014, 4 additional ill persons have been reported from New York (1), Rhode Island (1), and Texas (2)., Among persons for whom information is available, dates that illnesses began range from January 21, 2014 to June 21, 2014. Ill persons range in age from 1 year to 81 years, with a median age of 45 years. Sixty percent of ill persons are female. Among 20 ill persons with available information, three (15%) report being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after June 27, 2014, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. The recalled products containing organic sprouted chia powder have a long shelf life and may still be in people’s homes, and illnesses may continue to be reported. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic and traceback findings have linked this outbreak of Salmonella infections to various brands of organic sprouted chia powder., FDAExternal laboratory sampling identified Salmonella Gaminara from one sample of Organic Traditions Sprouted Chia Seed Powder. A search of the PulseNet database did not identify any human isolates matching this pattern of Salmonella Gaminara., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in humans, retail meats and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is an interagency partnership among CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on four isolates collected from ill persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Hartford (two isolates) and Salmonella Newport (two isolates). Of the four isolates tested, all were pansusceptible (susceptible to all antibiotics on the NARMS panel)., The Public Health Agency of CanadaExternal and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency continue to investigate similar cases of Salmonella infection in several Canadian provinces. CDC, state, local, and Canadian public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) continues to work closely with CDC and other partners in this investigation., Product testing of a sample of leftover Navitas Naturals Organic Sprouted Chia Powder collected from an ill person’s home in Connecticut isolated the outbreak strains of Salmonella Newport and Salmonella Hartford, and an additional serotype, Salmonella Oranienburg. A search of the PulseNet database identified a total of two ill persons infected with the same strain of Salmonella Oranienburg in two U.S. states. This strain of Salmonella Oranienburg has been seen before in PulseNet, one case per month on average. Initial interviews with ill persons suggested a link to the ongoing outbreak investigation, so these illnesses have been combined with the existing Salmonella Newport and Salmonella Hartford infections previously identified., As of June 9, 2014, a total of 21 ill persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Newport (13 persons), Salmonella Hartford (6 persons), or Salmonella Oranienburg (2 persons) have been reported from 12 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Arizona (1), California (3), Colorado (1), Connecticut (3), Florida (1), Massachusetts (1), Michigan (1), New York (4), Ohio (1), Utah (1), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (3)., Among persons for whom information is available, dates that illnesses began range from January 21, 2014 to May 21, 2014. Ill persons range in age from 1 year to 81 years, with a median age of 49 years. Sixty-two percent of ill persons are female. Among 15 ill persons with available information, 2 (13%) report being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 13, 2014 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. The recalled products containing organic sprouted chia powder have a long shelf-life and may still be in people’s homes, and illnesses may continue to be reported. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic and traceback findings have linked this outbreak of Salmonella infections to various brands of organic sprouted chia powder., In interviews, ill persons are answering questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before becoming ill. To date, 16 (100%) of 16 persons interviewed reported eating chia seeds or powder, and 11 (73%) of 15 persons who identified the type of chia product consumed reported eating chia powder specifically., Laboratory testing conducted by public health laboratories in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and New York isolated one or more of the outbreak strains from 5 samples of leftover Navitas Naturals products containing organic sprouted chia powder collected from ill persons homes and 2 samples of unopened Navitas Naturals products containing organic sprouted chia powder collected from retail locations., The Public Health Agency of CanadaExternal and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency continue to investigate similar cases of Salmonella infection in several Canadian provinces. CDC, state, local, and Canadian public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is continuing to work closely with CDC and other partners in this investigation., Through a collaborative investigation with the Public Health Agency of CanadaExternal, (PHAC), a total of five ill persons infected with a strain of Salmonella Hartford matching an outbreak strain in Canada have been identified through PulseNet in five U.S. states. This strain of Salmonella Hartford has never been seen before in PulseNet. Initial interviews with ill persons suggested a link to the ongoing Salmonella Newport outbreak investigation in the United States. These illnesses have been combined with the existing Salmonella Newport infections previously identified as part of this investigation., As of June 2, 2014, a total of 17 ill persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Newport (12 persons) or Salmonella Hartford (5 persons) have been reported from 10 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Arizona (1), California (2), Connecticut (2), Ohio (1), Florida (1), Massachusetts (1), Michigan (1), New York (4), Utah (1), and Wisconsin (3)., Among persons for whom information is available, dates that illnesses began range from January 21, 2014 to May 5, 2014. Ill persons range in age from 4 years to 81 years, with a median age of 51 years. Sixty-five percent of ill persons are female. Among 13 ill persons with available information, two (15%) report being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 16, 2014 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. The recalled products containing organic sprouted chia powder have a long shelf-life and may still be in people’s homes, and illnesses may continue to be reported. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic and traceback findings have linked this outbreak of Salmonella infections to various brands of organic sprouted chia powder., In interviews, ill persons are answering questions about foods eaten and other exposures in the week before becoming ill. To date, 12 (100%) of 12 persons interviewed reported eating chia seeds or powder, and 9 (75%) of 12 persons reported eating chia powder specifically., On May 28, 2014, Navitas Naturals recalledExternal, products that contain organic sprouted chia powder due to possible Salmonella contamination. The recalled products include Navitas Naturals Organic Sprouted Chia Powder, Navitas Naturals Omega Blend Sprouted Smoothie Mix, and Williams-Sonoma Omega 3 Smoothie Mixer. The recalled products are available for purchase in many retail stores and online., On May 30, 2014, the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA) notified consumers that Advantage Health Matters and Back 2 the Garden recalledExternal, various products containing sprouted chia seed powder due to possible Salmonella contamination. These products are sold under the brand names Organic Traditions and Back 2 the Garden and are available for purchase online by consumers in the United States., Several samples of leftover organic sprouted chia powder from ill persons homes and unopened packages from retail locations are being tested for the presence of Salmonella bacteria. Results of this testing are pending and will be released when they become available., CDC, state, local, and Canadian public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is continuing to work closely with CDC and other partners in this investigation., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Newport infections. Results from this ongoing investigation indicate that organic sprouted chia powder distributed by Navitas Naturals of Novato, California is the likely source of this outbreak. Chia powder is made from ground dried chia seeds., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, obtains DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. This PFGE pattern has never been seen before in PulseNet., A total of 12 ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Newport have been reported from 7 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Arizona (1), California (2), Connecticut (1), Massachusetts (1), New York (4), Utah (1), and Wisconsin (2)., Among persons for whom information is available, dates that illnesses began range from January 21, 2014 to May 5, 2014. Ill persons range in age from 4 years to 71 years, with a median age of 48 years. Fifty-eight percent of ill persons are female. Among ten ill persons with available information, one (10%) reports being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after May 8, 2014 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. The recalled products containing organic sprouted chia powder have a long shelf-life and may still be in peoples homes, and illnesses may continue to be reported. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic and traceback findings have linked this outbreak of Salmonella infections to organic sprouted chia powder distributed by Navitas Naturals., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about food eaten and other exposures in the week before becoming ill. Seven (100%) of seven persons interviewed reported eating chia powder. Six (86%) of these seven people reported eating the Navitas Naturals organic sprouted chia powder., On May 28, 2014, Navitas Naturals recalledExternal, products that contain organic sprouted chia powder due to possible Salmonella contamination. The recalled products include Navitas Naturals Organic Sprouted Chia Powder, Navitas Naturals Omega Blend Sprouted Smoothie Mix, and Williams-Sonoma Omega 3 Smoothie Mixer. The recalled products are available for purchase in many retail stores and online., Several samples of leftover organic sprouted chia powder from ill persons homes and unopened packages from retail locations are being tested for the presence of Salmonella bacteria. Results of this testing will be released when they become available., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is continuing to work closely with CDC and state partners in this investigation., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'e97cbf0a63f49fbbd2b8b6d3cb7fea6556d3f308bde080ab62a71a3d7bf13c09', 'headline': 'Salmonella | Salmonella Typhimurium Infections Linked to Frozen Feeder Rodents | June, 2014 | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 19, 44, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/typhimurium-rodents-05-14/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted June 20, 2014 1:30 PM ET, , This outbreak appears to be over. However, contact with both live and frozen feeder rodents can be a source of human Salmonella infections. You should always wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching frozen or live feeder rodents., , This outbreak appears to be over as the number of reported infections has returned to baseline levels. However, contact with both live and frozen feeder rodents can be a source of human Salmonella infections. You should always wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching frozen or live feeder rodents., , CDC collaborated with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to contact with frozen feeder rodents used to feed pet reptiles., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, obtains DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. This PFGE pattern had been seen before in PulseNet and in the past had typically caused 4 to 8 cases per month during the outbreak period., A total of 41 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from 21 states since January 11, 2014. The number of ill persons reported from each state was as follows: Alabama (1), Arizona (2), California (7), Colorado (1), Illinois (1), Kentucky (1), Maryland (1), Michigan (2), Minnesota (1), Missouri (3), Montana (3), New Jersey (3), New Mexico (1), North Carolina (1), Ohio (4), Oregon (2), Pennsylvania (3), South Carolina (1), South Dakota (1), Texas (1), and Virginia (1)., Among 35 persons with available information, dates that illnesses began ranged from January 11, 2014 to May 17, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 69 years, with a median age of 21 years. Fifty-four percent of ill persons were female. Among 37 persons with available information, 6 (16%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections was not related to an outbreak of Salmonella infections related to snakes and feeder rodents in CanadaExternal., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, veterinary, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicated that contact with frozen feeder rodents used to feed pet reptiles was a likely source of this outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections. Frozen feeder rodents may include mice, rats, or other rodents of different sizes and ages. Frozen feeder rodents are used to feed some pet reptiles, amphibians, and birds of prey., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods eaten and animal contact during the week before becoming ill. Twenty-two (61%) of 36 ill persons interviewed reported contact with multiple types of reptiles, including snakes and lizards. Seventeen (77%) of the 22 ill persons reporting reptile exposure were able to provide information about what the reptile was fed. Fifteen (88%) of these 17 ill persons reported exposure to frozen feeder rodents., The Oregon State Public Health Laboratory isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium in one sample of unused frozen mice, packaged by Reptile Industries, Inc. and sold under the brand name Arctic Mice at PetSmart, collected by the Oregon Department of Public Health from an ill person’s home., Testing conducted by FDA isolated the outbreak strain in two samples of frozen feeder rodents collected during an FDA investigation at the Reptile Industries facility., On May 20, 2014, as Reptile Industries, Inc. was unable to conclusively identify and withdraw from the market all possibly contaminated products, FDAExternal issued a warning to pet owners who purchased frozen rodents packaged by Reptile Industries, Inc. since January 11, 2014, that they had the potential to be contaminated with Salmonella. Reptile Industries, Inc. packages frozen rodents for PetSmart stores nationwide and they are sold under the brand name Arctic Mice., FDA currently advises pet owners who have Reptile Industries Inc.’s Arctic Mice brand frozen rodents purchased from PetSmart from January 11, 2014 through May 21, 2014, to dispose of the product by placing it in a sealed container in the trash so that no children, pets, or other animals, such as wildlife, may be able to reach it., CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on Salmonella Typhimurium isolates collected from three ill persons infected with the outbreak strain; all isolates were pansusceptible (susceptible to all antibiotics on the NARMS panel). NARMS is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is an interagency partnership among CDC, FDA, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments. The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and several other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens and submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories., , , A total of 41 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from 21 states since January 11, 2014. Since the last update on May 20, 2014, four additional ill persons were reported from Colorado (1), Missouri (1), South Carolina (1), and Virginia (1). The total number of ill persons identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (1), Arizona (2), California (7), Colorado (1), Illinois (1), Kentucky (1), Maryland (1), Michigan (2), Minnesota (1), Missouri (3), Montana (3), New Jersey (3), New Mexico (1), North Carolina (1), Ohio (4), Oregon (2), Pennsylvania (3), South Carolina (1), South Dakota (1), Texas (1), and Virginia (1)., Among 35 persons with available information, dates that illnesses began ranged from January 11, 2014 to May 17, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 69 years, with a median age of 21 years. Fifty-four percent of ill persons were female. Among 37 persons with available information, 6 (16%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak appears to be over as the number of reported infections has returned to baseline levels. However, contact with both live and frozen feeder rodents can be a source of human Salmonella infections. You should always wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching frozen or live feeder rodents., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in many states, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration Coordinated Outbreak Response and Evaluation NetworkExternal (FDA CORE), and the FDA Center for Veterinary MedicineExternal (FDA CVM) to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to contact with frozen feeder rodents used to feed pet reptiles. FDA CVM is the regulatory authority for animal feeds (which includes pet food), animal drugs, and veterinary devices., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, obtains DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. This PFGE pattern has been seen before in PulseNet and in the past typically caused 4-8 cases per month during January to April., A total of 37 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 18 states from January 11, 2014 to May 13, 2014. The number of ill persons reported from each state is as follows: Alabama (1), Arizona (2), California (7), Illinois (1), Kentucky (1), Maryland (1), Michigan (2), Minnesota (1), Missouri (2), Montana (3), New Jersey (3), New Mexico (1), North Carolina (1), Ohio (4), Oregon (2), Pennsylvania (3), South Dakota (1), and Texas (1)., Among 32 persons with available information, dates that illnesses began range from January 11, 2014 to April 21, 2014. Ill persons range in age from younger than 1 year to 69 years, with a median age of 21 years. Fifty-nine percent of ill persons are female. Among 34 persons with available information, 5 (15%) report being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that began after April 13, 2014 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, veterinary, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicate that contact with frozen feeder rodents used to feed pet reptiles is a likely source of this outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections. Frozen feeder rodents may include mice, rats, or other rodents of different sizes and ages. Frozen feeder rodents are used to feed some pet reptiles and amphibians., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods eaten and animal contact during the week before becoming ill. Twenty-one (66%) of 32 ill persons interviewed reported contact with multiple types of reptiles, including snakes and lizards. Seventeen of the 21 ill persons reporting reptile exposure were able to provide information about what the reptile was fed. Fifteen (88%) of these 17 ill persons reported exposure to frozen feeder rodents., The Oregon State Public Health Laboratory isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium in one sample of unused frozen mice, packaged by Reptile Industries, Inc. and sold under the brand name Arctic Mice at PetSmart, collected by the Oregon Department of Public Health from an ill person’s home., FDA has evaluated sales and shipping records, and traceback activities have identified Reptile Industries, Inc. as the common source of frozen feeder rodents purchased by ill persons. Testing conducted by FDA isolated the outbreak strain in two samples of frozen feeder rodents collected during an FDA investigation at the Reptile Industries facility., In the absence of a voluntary recall from Reptile Industries, Inc., FDA issued a warning to pet owners who have purchased frozen rodents packaged by Reptile Industries, Inc. since January 11, 2014 that they have the potential to be contaminated with Salmonella. Reptile Industries, Inc. packages frozen rodents for PetSmart stores nationwide and are sold under the brand name Arctic Mice., CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on Salmonella Typhimurium isolates collected from three ill persons infected with the outbreak strain; all isolates were pansusceptible (susceptible to all antibiotics on the NARMS panel). NARMS is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is an interagency partnership among CDC, FDA, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments. The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and several other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens and submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten and animals they had contact with before becoming ill., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '9ed1e57427da57522d1a91cf14d00db4cfbaec245a29eaa90071e3bcc106271f', 'headline': 'Salmonella Infections Linked to Live Poultry | May 2014 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 17, 22, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/live-poultry-05-14/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted October 21, 2014 12:45 PM ET, , This outbreak appears to be over. However, live poultry, including those kept in backyard flocks, remain an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States. More information about Salmonella from live poultry and the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection is available., , CDC collaborated with public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials in many states and with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella infections linked to contact with live poultry. Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, obtains DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE., A total of 363 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, or Salmonella Hadar were reported from 43 states and Puerto Rico. The total number of ill persons identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (9),  Arizona (3), Arkansas (3), California (5), Colorado (5), Connecticut (2), Florida (1), Georgia (17), Idaho (5), Illinois (6), Iowa (5), Indiana (4), Kansas (2), Kentucky (15), Louisiana (1), Maine (9), Maryland (3), Massachusetts (2), Michigan (2), Minnesota (3), Mississippi (2), Missouri (2), Montana (3),  Nebraska (5), New Hampshire (3), New Jersey (3), New Mexico (2), New York (36), North Carolina (34), Ohio (31),  Oregon (2), Pennsylvania (33), Puerto Rico (1), South Carolina (9), South Dakota (6), Tennessee (20), Texas (4), Utah (2), Vermont (7), Virginia (25), Washington (10), West Virginia (18), Wisconsin (2), and Wyoming (1)., Among persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 3, 2014 and September 27, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 95 years, and the median age was 32.5 years. Thirty-five percent of ill persons were 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-five percent of ill persons were female. Among 233 ill persons with available information, 76 (33%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak appears to be over. However, live poultry, including those kept in backyard flocks, remain an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States. More information about Salmonella from live poultry and the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection is available., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health agencies indicated that contact with live poultry sourced from Mt. Healthy Hatcheries in Ohio was the likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella infections., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. One hundred seventy-four (73%) of 237 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens, ducks, ducklings) in the week before becoming ill., Mt. Healthy Hatcheries sells birds to many different retailers. One hundred twenty-one (92%) of 132 ill persons with available purchase information reported purchasing live baby poultry from 16 different feed supply stores in multiple states. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets., Samples from live poultry and the environments where the poultry live and roam were collected from ill persons’ homes in Vermont and Virginia. Testing of these samples yielded two of the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis. These birds were sourced from Mt. Healthy Hatcheries in Ohio., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is an interagency partnership among CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on a total of 11 isolates collected from ill persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis (8 isolates) or Newport (3 isolates). Of the 11 isolates tested, 2 (18%) Salmonella Infantis isolates were resistant to tetracycline, and the remaining 9 (82%) Salmonella Infantis or Newport isolates were susceptible to all antibiotics tested on the NARMS panel. Tetracycline is not typically used to treat Salmonella infections., Findings of multiple traceback investigations of live baby poultry from homes of ill persons identified Mt. Healthy Hatcheries in Ohio as the source of chicks and ducklings. This hatchery uses multiple source flocks to obtain eggs and chicks, so it is unclear where the contamination originated. This is the same mail-order hatchery that has been associated with multiple outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to live poultry in the past, including in 2012 and 2013. Public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials continue to work with this hatchery and make recommendations for improvement., This hatchery is a member of the USDA National Poultry Improvement Plan (NPIP), a program that is intended to eliminate certain strains of Salmonella that cause illness in poultry breeding flocks and hatcheries. On August 8, 2014, amendments Cdc-pdf[PDF – 17 pages]External to the NPIP took effect. One of these amendments to the NPIP provisions includes the addition of a new certification program for Salmonella, in which mail-order hatcheries have the opportunity to voluntarily participate. Participation in this program will certify their flocks are monitored for Salmonella organisms that may cause illness in humans. The intent of this program is to reduce the incidence of Salmonella in day-old poultry in the hatchery and give the poultry industry a better opportunity to reduce the incidence of Salmonella in their products. New NPIP guidelines Cdc-pdf[PDF – 25 pages]External have been published to help prevent contamination and infection of poultry with Salmonella in mail-order hatcheries., Contact with live poultry can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Many ill persons in this outbreak reported bringing live poultry into their homes, and others reported kissing or cuddling with live poultry. These behaviors increase a person’s risk of a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry. People can get sick even if they do not have direct contact with live poultry, but touch items and places that have been contaminated in the poultry’s environment. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. These recommendations are important and apply to all live poultry regardless of the age of the birds or where they were purchased., Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or display chicks, ducklings and other live poultry should provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds before selling them. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry., , A total of 363 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, or Salmonella Hadar were reported from 43 states and Puerto Rico. Since the last update on September 25, 2014, a total of 19 new ill persons were reported from California (2), Idaho (1), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (1), Massachusetts (1), Minnesota (1), Missouri (1), New York (2), North Carolina (2), Ohio (1), Oregon (1), South Dakota (2), Tennessee (1), Texas (1), and Washington (1)., Among persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 3, 2014 and September 27, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 95 years, and the median age was 32.5 years. Thirty-five percent of ill persons were 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-five percent of ill persons were female. Among 233 ill persons with available information, 76 (33%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak appears to be over. However, live poultry, including those kept in backyard flocks, remain an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States. More information about Salmonella from live poultry and the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection is available., , As of September 23, 2014, a total of 344 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, or Salmonella Hadar have been reported from 42 states and Puerto Rico. Since the last update on August 8, 2014, a total of 44 new ill persons have been reported from Alabama (1), Arizona (1), Connecticut (1), Georgia (1),  Illinois (1), Iowa (2), Kansas (1), Kentucky (3), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), Nebraska (2), New Jersey (1), New York (4), North Carolina (4), Ohio (6),  Pennsylvania (4), South Carolina (3), South Dakota (1), Tennessee (2), Texas (1), Utah (1), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Among persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 3, 2014, and August 23, 2014. Ill persons range in age from younger than 1 year to 95 years, and the median age is 32 years. Thirty-three percent of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-four percent of ill persons are female. Among 224 ill persons with available information, 71 (32%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after August 24, 2014, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., , As of August 5, 2014, a total of 300 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, or Salmonella Hadar have been reported from 42 states and Puerto Rico. Since the last update on June 27, 2014, a total of 49 new ill persons have been reported from Alabama (2), Arizona (1), Colorado (1), Georgia (3), Idaho (2), Iowa (1), Massachusetts (1), Minnesota (1), Missouri (1), Nebraska (3), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (1), New York (3), North Carolina (1), Ohio (3), Oregon (1), Pennsylvania (4), Puerto Rico (1), South Carolina (1), Tennessee (3), Vermont (1), Virginia (8), Washington (1), and West Virginia (4)., Among persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 3, 2014, and July 10, 2014. Ill persons range in age from younger than 1 year to 95 years, and the median age is 28 years. Thirty-seven percent of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-four percent of ill persons are female. Among 206 ill persons with available information, 64 (31%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after July 8, 2014, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Samples from live poultry and the environments where the poultry live and roam were collected from ill persons’ homes in Vermont and Virginia. Testing of these samples yielded two of the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis. These birds were sourced from Mt. Healthy Hatcheries in Ohio., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is an interagency partnership among CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on a total of 11 isolates collected from ill persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis (8 isolates) or Newport (3 isolates). Of the 11 isolates tested to date, 2 (18%) were resistant to tetracycline and 9 (82%) were pansusceptible (susceptible to all antibiotics tested). Tetracycline is not typically used to treat Salmonella infections. CDC’s NARMS laboratory continues to conduct antibiotic resistance testing on additional clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected with the outbreak strains. Results will be reported when they become available., The NPIP is a voluntary program that was initiated to eliminate certain diseases from poultry flocks that cause significant poultry illness and death. On August 8, 2014, amendmentsExternal to the National Poultry Improvement PlanExternal (NPIP) will take effect.  One of these amendments to the NPIP provisions includes the addition of a new certification program for Salmonella, in which mail-order hatcheries have the opportunity to voluntarily participate. Participation in this program will certify their flocks are monitored for Salmonella organisms that may cause illness in humans. The intent of this program is to reduce the incidence of Salmonella in day-old poultry in the hatchery and give the poultry industry a better opportunity to reduce incidence of Salmonella in their products. In the future, consumers and retailers can choose to purchase their birds from mail-order hatcheries that participate in this additional program., , Based on ongoing epidemiologic investigations, additional ill persons infected with a different serotype of Salmonella, Salmonella Hadar, reported contact with chicks, ducklings, and other live baby poultry sourced from Mt. Healthy Hatcheries, and this strain has been added to the outbreak investigation., As of June 25, 2014, a total of 251 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, or Salmonella Hadar have been reported from 37 states. Since the last update on May 30, 2014, a total of 125 new ill persons have been reported from 32 states: Alabama (1), Arkansas (2), California (2), Colorado (1), Connecticut (1), Florida (1), Georgia (6), Iowa (2), Illinois (4), Indiana (2), Kansas (1), Kentucky (3), Maine (4), Maryland (1), Michigan (1),  Mississippi (2), Montana (2),  New Jersey (1) New York (15), North Carolina (13), Ohio (8), Pennsylvania (10), South Carolina (2), South Dakota (3), Tennessee (6), Texas (2), Vermont (3), Virginia (9), Washington (6),  West Virginia (9), Wisconsin (1), and Wyoming (1)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between and February 4, 2014 and June 4, 2014. Ill persons range in age from younger than one year to 95 years, and the median age is 28 years. Thirty-nine percent of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger.  Fifty-one percent of ill persons are female. Among 171 ill persons with available information, 54 (32%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 28, 2014 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., , As of May 27, 2014, a total of 126 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis or Salmonella Newport have been reported from 26 states. Since the last update on May 8, 2014, a total of 66 new ill persons have been reported from 18 states: Alabama (4), Colorado (1), Georgia (5), Illinois (1), Indiana (1), Kentucky (2), Maine (4), Montana (1), New Hampshire (1), New Mexico (1), New York (6), North Carolina (11), Ohio (7), Pennsylvania (7), South Carolina (3), Tennessee (5), Virginia (5), and West Virginia (1)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between and February 4, 2014 and May 15, 2014. Ill persons range in age from younger than one year to 95 years, and the median age is 28 years. Thirty-nine percent of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty percent of ill persons are female. Among 81 ill persons with available information, 28 (35%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 3, 2014, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health agencies indicate that contact with live poultry sourced from Mt. Healthy Hatcheries in Ohio is the likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella infections., Interviews with newly reported ill persons about their exposures in the week before becoming ill continue to be conducted. To date, 72 (82%) of 88 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens, ducks, ducklings) before becoming ill.  Eight (11%) of 72 reported contact with only adult chickens and 5 (7%) of 72 reported contact with only ducklings.  The median time from acquiring live poultry and illness onset was 24 days, with a range of 3 to 468 days. Samples from live poultry and the environments where the poultry live and roam were collected from an ill person’s home in Vermont. Testing of these samples yielded one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis. These birds were sourced from Mt. Healthy Hatcheries., Mt. Healthy Hatcheries sells birds to many different retailers. Fifty-two (90%) of 58 ill persons with available purchase information reported purchasing live poultry from seven different feed or farm store companies in multiple states. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets., , CDC is collaborating with public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials in many states and with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella infections linked to contact with live poultry. Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, obtains DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE., As of May 7, 2014, a total of 60 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis or Salmonella Newport have been reported from 23 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (1), Arizona (1), Arkansas (1), California (1), Colorado (2), Georgia (2), Idaho (2), Indiana (1), Kentucky (6), Maine (1), Maryland (2), New Hampshire (1), New Mexico (1), New York (6), North Carolina (3), Ohio (6), Pennsylvania (8), Tennessee (3), Utah (1), Vermont (3), Virginia (3), Washington (1), and West Virginia (4)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between and February 4, 2014 and April 21, 2014. Ill persons range in age from younger than one year to 95 years, and the median age is 29 years. Forty percent of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-seven percent of ill persons are male. Among 32 ill persons with available information, 10 (31%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after April 11, 2014, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health agencies indicate that contact with live poultry sourced from Mt. Healthy Hatcheries in Ohio is the likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella infections., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Thirty-one (82%) of 38 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens, ducks, ducklings) before becoming ill. Mt. Healthy Hatcheries sells birds to many different retailers. Nineteen (90%) of 21 ill persons with available purchase information reported purchasing live baby poultry from five different feed or farm store companies in multiple states. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets., Findings of multiple traceback investigations of live baby poultry from homes of ill persons have identified Mt. Healthy Hatcheries in Ohio as the source of chicks and ducklings. This hatchery uses multiple source flocks to obtain eggs and chicks, so it is unclear at this time where the contamination originated. This is the same mail-order hatchery that has been associated with multiple outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to live poultry in the past, including in 2012 and 2013. Public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials continue to work with this hatchery and have made recommendations for improvement. This hatchery is a member of the USDA National Poultry Improvement Plan, a program that is intended to eliminate certain strains of Salmonella that cause illness in poultry breeding flocks and hatcheries, but does not certify that these live poultry are free from other strains of Salmonella that may cause human illness., Contact with live poultry can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Many ill persons in this outbreak reported bringing the live poultry into their homes, and others reported kissing or cuddling with the live poultry. These behaviors increase a person’s risk of a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry. People can get sick even if they do not have direct contact with the live poultry, but touch items and places that have been contaminated in the poultry’s environment. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. These recommendations are important and apply to all live poultry regardless of the age of the birds or where they were purchased., Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or display chicks, ducklings and other live poultry should provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '7c2818591db63c412acf7ba86576a6c00ab1e796d85084db3ed8f46cd526dcf2', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Human Salmonella Cotham and Salmonella Kisarawe Infections Linked to Contact with Pet Bearded Dragons (Final Update) | Salmonella Cotham and Salmonella Kisarawe Infections Linked to Pet Bearded Dragons | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 16, 8, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/cotham-04-14/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted August 20, 2014 11:15 AM ET, , This investigation is over. However, reptiles continue to be an cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States. More information about Salmonella from reptiles and the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection is available., , This investigation is over; however, the illnesses linked to contact with pet bearded dragons are expected to continue at a low level., CDC collaborated with public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture National Veterinary Services LaboratoriesExternal (NVSL) to investigate an outbreak of Salmonella Cotham infections linked to contact with pet bearded dragons purchased from multiple stores in different states. Bearded dragons are popular pet lizards, native to Australia, that come in a variety of colors., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, receives DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE., On January 22, 2014, CDC was notified by the Wisconsin Department of Health Services of a cluster of Salmonella Cotham infections with a high proportion of ill persons reporting exposure to pet reptiles. It was noted that since 2012, there were a total of 12 ill persons infected with Salmonella Cotham in Wisconsin, and 10 (83%) of 12 persons reported contact with pet bearded dragons. Wisconsin receives funding under the CDC FoodCORE (Foodborne Diseases Centers for Outbreak Response Enhancement) program. These centers work together to develop new and better methods to detect, investigate, respond to, and control multistate outbreaks of foodborne diseases., Salmonella Cotham is a rare serotype. Through a search of historical Salmonella databases, CDC determined that Salmonella Cotham represented only 0.01% of all human isolates in the United States since 1963. Before this outbreak, typically less than 25 Salmonella Cotham infections were reported to PulseNet annually. Given the rarity of the Cotham serotype and the information gathered by Wisconsin, CDC conducted a search of PulseNet for all Salmonella Cotham infections reported since 2012. A second rarely reported serotype, Salmonella Kisarawe, was added to this outbreak investigation after culture of a sample from a bearded dragon collected from an ill person’s home yielded both Salmonella Kisarawe and Salmonella Cotham. A search of the PulseNet database identified six ill persons infected with Salmonella Kisarawe as well as five isolates collected from bearded dragons., A total of 166 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Cotham (160 persons) or Salmonella Kisarawe (6 persons) were reported from 36 states since February 21, 2012. The number of ill persons identified in each state was as follows: Alaska (1), Arizona (5), California (27), Colorado (3), Florida (3), Georgia (3), Idaho (3), Illinois (8), Indiana (4), Kansas (6), Kentucky (4), Maryland (7), Massachusetts (2), Michigan (7), Minnesota (3), Missouri (8), Nebraska (1), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (3), Nevada (3), New York (12), North Carolina (4), North Dakota (1), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (1), Oregon (2), Pennsylvania (6), South Carolina (1), South Dakota (1), Tennessee (5), Texas (7), Utah (3), Virginia (3), Washington (4), West Virginia (1), and Wisconsin (12)., Among 115 persons for whom information was available, dates that illnesses began ranged from February 20, 2012, to June 30, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 79 years, with a median age of 3 years. Fifty-nine percent of ill persons were children 5 years of age or younger. Fifty-five percent of ill persons were female. Among 118 ill persons with available information, 44 (37%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health agencies indicated that contact with pet bearded dragons was the likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella Cotham and Salmonella Kisarawe infections. This investigation is over; however, the illnesses linked to contact with pet bearded dragons are expected to continue at a low level since pet owners might be unaware of the risk of Salmonella infection from bearded dragons. If properly cared for, bearded dragons have an average life expectancy of 3 to 10 years. Bearded dragons can continue to shed Salmonella, including these outbreak strains, and potentially make people sick throughout their life., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Eighty-six (83%) of 104 persons interviewed reported contact with reptiles or their environments before becoming ill. When asked about the type of reptile, 87 (78%) of 112 persons reported contact with lizards; of 74 persons specifically mentioning the type of lizard, 71 (96%) reported contact with bearded dragons. The percentage of ill persons in this outbreak reporting contact with a reptile was significantly higher than the percentage of U.S. households that reported owning a pet reptile in a survey conducted in 2013-2014 by the American Pet Products Association (4.6%)., Several State Public Health Laboratories isolated the outbreak strains of Salmonella Cotham and Salmonella Kisarawe from samples from pet bearded dragons or their habitats collected from ill persons’ homes., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is an interagency partnership among CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and several other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens and submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory tested Salmonella Cotham isolates collected from ten ill persons infected with the outbreak strain. One (10%) of the ten isolates tested was multidrug resistant (defined as resistance to at least one antibiotic in three or more antibiotic classes), and the other nine (90%) isolates tested were pansusceptible (susceptible to all antibiotics tested). The multidrug-resistant isolate showed resistance to the following antibiotics: ceftriaxone, amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, ampicillin, cefoxitin, ceftiofur, chloramphenicol, gentamicin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole and tetracycline and an intermediate level of resistance to ciprofloxacin. Ceftriaxone is commonly used to treat serious Salmonella infections in both children and adults. Ciprofloxacin is also commonly used to treat serious Salmonella infections in adults but is not routinely used in children. CDC’s NARMS laboratory also tested Salmonella Cotham isolates collected from two infected bearded dragons. Both of these isolates were pansusceptible., The pet industry worked closely with CDC to determine the source of the bearded dragons linked to this outbreak in order to prevent additional illnesses. Through this collaboration, multiple potential bearded dragon breeders were identified that supply lizards to stores in the United States where ill persons reported purchasing their animals., Environmental and reptile samples were collected during investigations at multiple domestic and international bearded dragon breeding operations and at a large national pet retail chain. A total of 454 samples were obtained, of which 320 (71%) yielded Salmonella. Of 291 Salmonella isolates serotyped, a total of 46 (16%) yielded Salmonella Cotham and 23 (8%) yielded Salmonella Kisarawe. Of these 69 Salmonella Cotham and Kisarawe samples, 4 (6%) yielded both serotypes., , A total of 166 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Cotham (160 persons) or Salmonella Kisarawe (6 persons) were reported from 36 states since February 21, 2012. The number of ill persons identified in each state was as follows: Alaska (1), Arizona (5), California (27), Colorado (3), Florida (3), Georgia (3), Idaho (3), Illinois (8), Indiana (4), Kansas (6), Kentucky (4), Maryland (7), Massachusetts (2), Michigan (7), Minnesota (3), Missouri (8), Nebraska (1), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (3), Nevada (3), New York (12), North Carolina (4), North Dakota (1), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (1), Oregon (2), Pennsylvania (6), South Carolina (1), South Dakota (1), Tennessee (5), Texas (7), Utah (3), Virginia (3), Washington (4), West Virginia (1), and Wisconsin (12)., Among 115 persons for whom information was available, dates that illnesses began ranged from February 20, 2012, to June 30, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 79 years, with a median age of 3 years. Fifty-nine percent of ill persons were children 5 years of age or younger. Fifty-five percent of ill persons were female. Among 118 ill persons with available information, 44 (37%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This investigation is over; however, illnesses linked to contact with pet bearded dragons are expected to continue at a low level since pet owners might be unaware of the risk of Salmonella infection from bearded dragons. If properly cared for, bearded dragons have an average life expectancy of 3 to 10 years. Bearded dragons can continue to shed Salmonella, and potentially make people sick, throughout their life., , , A second rarely reported serotype, Salmonella Kisarawe, was added to this outbreak investigation after a sample from a bearded dragon collected from an ill person’s home isolated both Salmonella Kisarawe and Salmonella Cotham. A search of the PulseNet database identified five ill persons infected with Salmonella Kisarawe, and five non-human isolates collected from bearded dragons., As of June 6, 2014, a total of 150 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Cotham (145 persons) or Salmonella Kisarawe (5 persons) have been reported from 35 states since February 21, 2012. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows (listed in alphabetical order): Alaska (1), Arizona (4), California (24), Colorado (3), Florida (3), Georgia (2), Idaho (3), Illinois (8), Indiana (2), Kansas (6), Kentucky (4), Massachusetts (1), Maryland (4), Michigan (6), Minnesota (3), Missouri (7), North Carolina (4), North Dakota (1), Nebraska (1), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (3), Nevada (3), New York (11), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (1), Oregon (2), Pennsylvania (5), South Carolina (1), South Dakota (1), Tennessee (5), Texas (7), Utah (3), Virginia (3), Washington (4), and Wisconsin (12). Additionally, the Public Health Agency of CanadaExternal has identified ill persons infected with the same strain of Salmonella Cotham in Canada., Among 95 persons for whom information is available, dates that illnesses began range from February 21, 2012 to May 19, 2014. Ill persons range in age from younger than 1 year to 79 years, with a median age of 2 years. Fifty-seven percent of ill persons are children 5 years of age or younger. Fifty-six percent of ill persons are female. Among 83 ill persons with available information, 36 (43%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 6, 2014 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health agencies indicate that contact with pet bearded dragons is the likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella infections., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. To date, CDC has received a total of 46 completed questionnaires. Forty-one (89%) of 46 persons interviewed reported contact with reptiles or their environments before becoming ill. When asked about the type of reptile, 36 (78%) of 46 persons reported contact with lizards; of these persons, 33 (92%) specifically reported contact with bearded dragons, a type of lizard. Ill persons infected with Salmonella Cotham and ill persons infected with Salmonella Kisarawe reported contact with bearded dragons. The percentage of ill persons in this outbreak reporting contact with a reptile is substantially higher than the 4.6% of U.S. households that reported owning a pet reptile in a survey conducted in 2013-2014 by the American Pet Products Association. State and local health departments are continuing to interview ill persons., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is an interagency partnership among CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments. The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and several other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens and submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories., CDC’s NARMS laboratory has tested Salmonella Cotham isolates collected from 12 ill persons infected with the outbreak strain. To date, one (8%) of the 12 isolates tested was multidrug resistant (defined as resistance to at least one antibiotic in three or more antibiotic classes), and the other 11 (92%) isolates tested were pansusceptible (susceptible to all antibiotics tested). The multidrug resistant isolate has shown resistance to the following antibiotics: amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, ampicillin, cefoxitin, ceftiofur, ceftriaxone, chloramphenicol, gentamicin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole and tetracycline; it also was intermediate (neither fully susceptible nor fully resistant) to ciprofloxacin. Ceftriaxone and ciprofloxacin are commonly used to treat serious Salmonella infections., The pet industry continues to work closely with CDC to determine the source of the bearded dragons linked to this outbreak in order to prevent additional illnesses., Through this collaboration, multiple potential bearded dragon breeders have been identified that supply lizards to stores in the United States where ill persons reported purchasing their animals. This investigation continues and CDC will update the public when more information is available., , , CDC is collaborating with public health, veterinary, and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture National Veterinary Services LaboratoriesExternal (NVSL) to investigate an outbreak of Salmonella Cotham infections linked to contact with pet bearded dragons purchased from multiple stores in different states. Bearded dragons are popular pet lizards, native to Australia, that come in a variety of colors. Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, obtains DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE., On January 22, 2014, CDC was notified by the Wisconsin Department of Health Services of a cluster of Salmonella Cotham infections with a high proportion of ill persons reporting exposure to pet reptiles. Since 2012, there have been 12 ill persons infected with Salmonella Cotham in Wisconsin, and 10 (83%) of 12 persons reported contact with pet bearded dragons. Wisconsin receives funding under the CDC FoodCORE (Foodborne Diseases Centers for Outbreak Response Enhancement) program. These centers work together to develop new and better methods to detect, investigate, respond to, and control multistate outbreaks of foodborne diseases., Salmonella Cotham is a rare serotype. Searching historical Salmonella databases, CDC determined that Salmonella Cotham represents only 0.01% of all human isolates in the United States since 1963. Before this outbreak, typically fewer than 25 Salmonella Cotham infections were reported to PulseNet annually. Given the rarity of the Cotham serotype and the information gathered by Wisconsin, CDC conducted a search of PulseNet for all Salmonella Cotham infections reported since 2012., As of April 21, 2014, a total of 132 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Cotham have been reported from 31 states since February 21, 2012. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows (listed in alphabetical order): Arizona (4), California (21), Colorado (2), Florida (3), Georgia (1), Idaho (3), Illinois (6), Kansas (6), Kentucky (4), Maryland (3), Massachusetts (1), Michigan (5), Minnesota (3), Missouri (7), Nebraska (1), Nevada (3), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (3), New York (10), North Carolina (2), Ohio (1), Oregon (2), Pennsylvania (5), South Carolina (1), South Dakota (1), Tennessee (5), Texas (6), Utah (3), Virginia (3), Washington (4), and Wisconsin (12)., Among 132 persons for whom information is available, dates that illnesses began range from February 20, 2012 to April 1, 2014. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 79 years, with a median age of 2 years. Fifty-eight percent of ill persons are children 5 years of age or younger. Fifty-one percent of ill persons are female. Among 67 ill persons with available information, 28 (42%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve (epi curve). Illnesses that occurred after March 22, 2014 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infection for more details., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health agencies indicate that contact with pet bearded dragons is the likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella Cotham infections., On March 25, 2014, CDC sent a questionnaire to the states involved in the investigation to obtain more detailed information from ill persons about recent contact with reptiles. In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. To date, CDC has received a total of 31 completed questionnaires. Twenty-seven (87%) of 31 persons interviewed reported contact with reptiles or their environments before becoming ill. When asked about the type of reptile, 25 (81%) of 31 persons reported contact with lizards; of these 25 persons, 21 (84%) specifically reported contact with bearded dragons, a type of lizard. The percentage of ill persons in this outbreak reporting contact with a reptile is substantially higher than the percentage of U.S. households that reported owning a pet reptile in a survey conducted in 2013-2014 by the American Pet Products Association (5.6%). State and local health departments are continuing to interview ill persons., The Oregon State Public Health LaboratoryExternal has isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Cotham from samples from a pet bearded dragon and its habitat collected from an ill person’s home in Oregon., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring SystemExternal (NARMS) is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is an interagency partnership among CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and several other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens and submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory tested Salmonella Cotham isolates collected from three ill persons infected with the outbreak strain. One (33%) of the three isolates tested was multidrug resistant (defined as resistance to at least one antibiotic in three or more antibiotic classes), and the other two (67%) isolates tested were pansusceptible (susceptible to all antibiotics tested). The multidrug resistant isolate has shown resistance to the following antibiotics: ampicillin, chloramphenicol, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, cefoxitin, ceftriaxone, ceftiofur, and gentamicin. One of these antibiotics, ceftriaxone, is commonly used to treat serious Salmonella infections, including those in children. The CDC NARMS laboratory is continuing to conduct antibiotic resistance testing on Salmonella Cotham isolates collected from ill persons. Additional results will be reported when they become available., The pet industry is working closely with CDC to determine the source of the bearded dragons linked to this outbreak in order to prevent additional illnesses. Through this collaboration, multiple potential bearded dragon breeders have been identified that supply lizards to pet stores in the United States where ill persons reported purchasing their animals. This investigation is ongoing and CDC will update the public when more information is available., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'f3f8d64c33fd25b30d40186a351427c3e225f00fbe96840d1314c335d704a907', 'headline': 'Salmonella Heidelberg Infections Linked to Tyson Brand Mechanically Separated Chicken at a Correctional Facility  | February 2014 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 13, 54, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/heidelberg-01-14/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted February 24, 2014 3:30 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., A total of nine persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg were reported from Tennessee., CDC collaborated with public health officials in Tennessee and the United States Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) to investigate an outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg infections at a Tennessee correctional facility. Results from Tennessee’s investigation indicated that mechanically separated chicken produced by Tyson Foods, Inc. was the source of the outbreak at the Tennessee correctional facility., Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints”\x9d of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify additional cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. This strain of Salmonella Heidelberg is common in the PulseNet database. Four to eight cases of this strain are reported to PulseNet every month., A total of nine ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg were reported from a Tennessee correctional facility. CDC identified 23 additional persons infected with this same strain from 15 other states with illness onset dates ranging from October 21, 2013 to January 29, 2014. Investigations determined that these ill persons were not related to the outbreak in Tennessee. Sources of the infections in these 15 states were not identified., Among persons in Tennessee for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from November 28, 2013 to November 29, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from 22 years to 50 years, with a median age of 36 years. All ill persons were male. Among nine ill persons for whom information was available, two (22%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported. All of the ill persons were incarcerated at a single correctional facility in Tennessee., This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., Epidemiologic and traceback investigations conducted by officials in Tennessee and USDA-FSIS indicated that consumption of mechanically separated chicken products produced by Tyson Foods, Inc. was the source of this outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg infections. Mechanically separated chicken is a paste-like meat product produced by forcing the meat through a sieve to separate the bone from the edible meat tissue., In interviews, ill persons at the Tennessee correctional facility answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Nine (100%) of nine ill persons interviewed reported consuming foods containing mechanically separated chicken in the week before becoming ill. Investigations at the correctional facility determined that the chicken served during the exposure period was Tyson brand mechanically separated chicken., CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from ill persons in Tennessee infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg. Not all human isolates exhibited the same antibiotic resistance pattern. Of nine human isolates tested, two (22%) were multidrug-resistant (defined as being resistant to at least one antibiotic in three or more antibiotic classes) and seven (78%) were pansusceptible (susceptible to all antibiotics tested). Both multidrug-resistant isolates collected from ill persons showed resistance to ceftriaxone, an antibiotic that is commonly used to treat serious Salmonella infections. These two isolates also showed resistance to combinations of the following additional antibiotics: ampicillin, cefoxitin, ceftiofur, amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. Resistance to some of these antibiotics may be associated with increased risk of hospitalization or development of a bloodstream infection., The CDC NARMS laboratory also conducted antibiotic resistance testing on one food isolate collected from leftover mechanically separated chicken from the Tennessee correctional facility. The isolate tested was pansusceptible (susceptible to all antibiotics tested)., On January 10, 2014, Tyson Foods, Inc. recalledExternal approximately 33,840 pounds of mechanically separated chicken products that may be contaminated with Salmonella Heidelberg. The chicken products were produced on October 11, 2013, and shipped for institutional use only nationwide. The product was not available for consumer purchase in retail stores., This outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg infections was not related to the multistate outbreak of multidrug-resistant Salmonella Heidelberg infections linked to Foster Farms brand chicken., A total of nine ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg were reported from a Tennessee correctional facility. CDC identified 23 additional persons infected with this same strain from 15 other states with illness onset dates ranging from October 21, 2013 to January 29, 2014. Investigations determined that these ill persons were not related to the outbreak in Tennessee. Sources of the infections in these 15 states were not identified., Among persons in Tennessee for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from November 28, 2013 to November 29, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from 22 years to 50 years, with a median age of 36 years. All ill persons were male. Among nine ill persons for whom information was available, two (22%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported. All of the ill persons were incarcerated at a single correctional facility in Tennessee., This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., CDC’s NARMS laboratory continues to conduct antibiotic resistance testing on Salmonella Heidelberg isolates collected from ill persons infected with the outbreak strain. Not all human isolates exhibited the same antibiotic resistance pattern. Of three isolates tested to date, two (67%) were multidrug-resistant (defined as being resistant to at least one antibiotic in three or more antibiotic classes), and one (33%) was pansusceptible (susceptible to all antibiotics tested). To date, both multidrug-resistant isolates collected from ill persons have shown resistance to ceftriaxone, an antibiotic that is commonly used to treat serious Salmonella infections. These two isolates have also shown resistance to combinations of the following additional antibiotics: ampicillin, cefoxitin, ceftiofur, amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline and trimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole. Resistance to some of these antibiotics may be associated with increased risk of hospitalization or development of a bloodstream infection., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in Tennessee and the United States Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) to investigate an outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg infections at a Tennessee correctional facility. Results from Tennessee’s investigation indicate that mechanically separated chicken produced by Tyson Foods, Inc. is the likely source of the outbreak at the Tennessee correctional facility., Public health investigators are using DNA “fingerprints”\x9d of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify additional cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They are using data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. This strain of Salmonella Heidelberg is common in the PulseNet database. Four to 8 cases of this strain are reported to PulseNet every month., A total of 9 ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from a Tennessee correctional facility. CDC has identified 19 additional persons infected with this same strain from 12 other states with illness onset dates ranging from October 22, 2013 to December 15, 2013. Investigations are ongoing to determine if these cases are related to the outbreak in Tennessee or if they are part of the expected number of illnesses reported during this time. The names of these states will not be released until it is determined if they are part of this outbreak., Among persons in Tennessee for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from November 28, 2013 to November 29, 2013. Ill persons range in age from 22 years to 50 years, with a median age of 36 years. All ill persons are male. Among 9 ill persons with available information, 2 (22%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported. All of the ill persons are incarcerated at a single correctional facility in Tennessee., Epidemiologic and traceback investigations conducted by officials in Tennessee and USDA-FSIS indicate that consumption of mechanically separated chicken products produced by Tyson Foods, Inc. is the likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg infections. Mechanically separated chickenExternal is a paste-like chicken product produced by forcing the poultry through a sieve to separate the bone from the edible tissue., In interviews, ill persons at the Tennessee correctional facility answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Eight (89%) of 9 ill persons interviewed reported consuming foods containing mechanically separated chicken in the week before becoming ill. Investigations at the correctional facility determined that the chicken served during the exposure period was Tyson brand mechanically separated chicken., CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently conducting antibiotic resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg. Results of this testing will be reported when they become available. NARMS is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antimicrobial resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry and food-producing animals. NARMS is an interagency partnership among the CDC, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the USDA, and state and local health departments. The NARMS human surveillance program monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella, Campylobacter, Shigella, Escherichia coli O157, and Vibrio bacteria isolated from clinical specimens and submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories., On January 10, 2014, Tyson Foods, Inc. recalledExternal approximately 33,840 pounds of mechanically separated chicken products that may be contaminated with Salmonella Heidelberg. The chicken products were produced on October 11, 2013, and shipped for institutional use only nationwide. The product is not available for consumer purchase in retail stores., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. USDA-FSIS is continuing to work closely with CDC and state partners in this investigation., This outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg infections is not related to the multistate outbreak of multidrug-resistant Salmonella Heidelberg infections linked to Foster Farms brand chicken., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '51cef63a239aca99edc1687013cf10359da112c66db52b89675dc0d8fdfee05a', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Salmonella Stanley Infections Linked to Raw Cashew Cheese (Final Update)  | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 14, 8, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/stanley-01-14/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted January 31, 2014 2:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., CDC collaborated with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Stanley infections. Results from this investigation indicated that raw cashew cheese produced by The Cultured Kitchen of West Sacramento, California was the source of this outbreak., Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints”\x9d of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. This strain of Salmonella Stanley is rare in the PulseNet database and had been seen only 20 times prior to this outbreak., A total of 17 ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Stanley were reported from three states. Most of the ill people were reported from California (88%). The number of ill persons identified in each state was as follows: California (15), Nevada (1), and Wyoming (1). One ill person identified in Utah likely acquired their infection during international travel and was excluded from the case count. Since the last update on January 3, 2014, three ill persons were reported from California., Among persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from November 13, 2013 to January 3, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from 2 years to 83 years, with a median age of 27 years. Fifty-three percent of ill persons were male. Among 15 ill persons with available information, three (20%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Epidemiologic and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicated that consumption of raw cashew cheese produced by The Cultured Kitchen was the source of this outbreak of Salmonella Stanley infections. Cashew cheese is a non-dairy product made from raw cashews and other ingredients., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Eleven (73%) of 15 ill persons interviewed reported eating raw cashew cheese in the week before becoming ill. Among those who had brand information available, 11 (100%) of 11 ill persons reported that they had eaten The Cultured Kitchen brand raw cashew cheese or had purchased it at a retail location that sold this brand., On December 31, 2013, The Cultured Kitchen of West Sacramento, California, recalledExternal all six flavors of its raw cashew cheese due to a risk of contamination with Salmonella. The recall affected products with an expiration date of April 19, 2014 or earlier. The cashew cheese products were sold in eight-ounce plastic containers in the following flavors: herb, smoked cheddar, pepper jack, habanero cilantro lime, basil pesto and white cheddar., Testing conducted by the California Department of Public Health isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Stanley from an opened package of The Cultured Kitchen brand smoked cheddar cashew cheese collected from an ill person’s home. Additionally, testing conducted of a sample of fermenting cashews collected at The Cultured Kitchen isolated Salmonella Weltevreden. No ill persons linked to this outbreak have been identified with Salmonella Weltevreden. The cashew is a tropical treenut, and cashews are not produced commercially in the United States. The source of these cashews has not been determined.&amp;, This outbreak appears to be over. However, the recalled cashew cheese products have a long shelf-life, and they may still be in peoples’ homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat these products and potentially get sick., Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., A total of 17 ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Stanley were reported from three states. Most of the ill people were reported from California (88%). The number of ill persons identified in each state was as follows: California (15), Nevada (1), and Wyoming (1). Since the last update on January 3, 2014, three ill persons were reported from California., Among persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from November 13, 2013 to January 3, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from 2 years to 83 years, with a median age of 27 years. Fifty-three percent of ill persons were male. Among 15 ill persons with available information, three (20%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Testing conducted by the California Department of Public Health isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Stanley from an opened package of The Cultured Kitchen brand smoked cheddar cashew cheese collected from an ill person’s home. Additionally, testing conducted of a sample of fermenting cashews collected at The Cultured Kitchen isolated Salmonella Weltevreden. No ill persons linked to this outbreak have been identified with Salmonella Weltevreden., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Stanley infections. Results from this ongoing investigation indicate that raw cashew cheese produced by The Cultured Kitchen of West Sacramento, California is the likely source of this outbreak., Public health investigators are using DNA “fingerprints”\x9d of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They are using data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. This strain of Salmonella Stanley is rare in the PulseNet database and has been seen only 20 times prior to this outbreak., A total of 14 ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Stanley have been reported from three states. Most of the ill people have been reported from California (85%). The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: California (12), Nevada (1), and Wyoming (1). One ill person identified in Utah likely acquired their infection during international travel and was excluded from the case count., Among persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from November 13, 2013 to December 9, 2013. Ill persons range in age from 2 years to 77 years, with a median age of 27 years. Fifty percent of ill persons are female. Among 12 ill persons with available information, 3 (25%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after December 12, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Additionally, the recalled raw cashew cheese has a long shelf-life and may still be in people’s homes, and illnesses may continue to be reported. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella Infections for more details., Epidemiologic and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicate that consumption of raw cashew cheese produced by The Cultured Kitchen is the likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella Stanley infections. Cashew cheese is a non-dairy product made from raw cashews and other ingredients., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Seven (64%) of 11 ill persons interviewed reported eating raw cashew cheese in the week before becoming ill. Among those who had brand information available, six (86%) of these 7 ill persons reported that they had eaten The Cultured Kitchen brand raw cashew cheese or had purchased it at a retail location that sold this brand., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. FDA is continuing to work closely with CDC and state partners in this investigation., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'ac9d9922d68698cd710fd9afd2bce3e4a1660d07b72f5d0029b438f76a099d15', 'headline': 'CDC - Multistate Outbreak of Multidrug-Resistant Salmonella Heidelberg Infections Linked to Foster Farms Brand Chicken', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 16, 33, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/heidelberg-10-13/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted July 31, 2014 4:00 PM ET, , This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., , , CDC collaborated with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg infections. Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations indicated that consumption of Foster Farms brand chicken was the source of this outbreak., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. PulseNet obtains DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria through diagnostic testing and uses pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness., Seven strains of Salmonella Heidelberg bacteria were identified as being linked to this outbreak. Before this outbreak, four of these strains were rarely reported to PulseNet. The other three strains were more common, with several ill persons infected with each strain reported to CDC monthly. Since some of these strains are more commonly reported to PulseNet, some illnesses may be part of the expected background and may not be linked to consumption of Foster Farms chicken. The DNA fingerprints of the Salmonella Heidelberg bacteria associated with this outbreak include the strain that was also associated with a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg linked to Foster Farms brand chicken processed at an establishment in Washington during 2012-2013., A total of 634 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg were reported from 29 states and Puerto Rico from March 1, 2013 to July 11, 2014. Most of the ill persons (77%) were reported from California. The total number of ill persons identified in each state was as follows: Alaska (1), Alabama (1), Arkansas (1), Arizona (25), California (490), Colorado (9), Connecticut (1), Delaware (1), Florida (4), Georgia (1), Hawaii (1), Idaho (5), Illinois (4), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (1), Michigan (4), Missouri (5), Montana (1), Nevada (11), New Mexico (2), North Carolina (1), Oregon (17), Tennessee (1), Texas (13), Utah (6), Virginia (4), Washington (20), West Virginia (1), and Wisconsin (1); one illness was reported from Puerto Rico., Among 633 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from March 1, 2013 to July 11, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 93 years, with a median age of 18 years. Fifty percent of ill persons were male. Among 528 persons for whom information was available, 200 (38%) were hospitalized. Fifteen percent of ill persons developed blood infections as a result of their illness. Typically, approximately 5% of persons ill with Salmonella infections develop blood infections. No deaths were reported., The current outbreak appears to be over as the number of reported infections has returned to the expected number for this time of year. Since some of the outbreak strains are reported to PulseNet even in the absence of an outbreak, several ill persons infected with these strains are still expected to be reported to CDC monthly., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Two hundred and sixty (74%) of 350 ill persons interviewed reported consuming chicken prepared at home in the week before becoming ill. This proportion was significantly higher when compared with results from a survey of healthy persons Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] in which 65% reported consuming chicken prepared at home in the week before they were interviewed. Among those who had brand information available, 152 (87%) of 175 ill persons reported that they consumed Foster Farms brand chicken or another brand likely produced by Foster Farms., Additionally, among the 490 ill persons reported in California, state and local health officials identified at least 25 ill persons as part of a cluster of illnesses in October 2013 during this outbreak. The ill persons consumed food purchased from the same Costco store location in South San Francisco in the week before they became sick. Based on interviews of ill persons, cooked rotisserie chicken purchased from this store location was linked to the illnesses. Shopper card information was successfully used to determine the specific food linked to illnesses and allowed investigators to identify the chicken involved as being supplied by Foster Farms. Ill persons gave permission for public health officials to retrieve purchase information based on shopper card numbers., During the outbreak investigation, health departments in California and Washington collected leftover chicken from the homes of ill persons for laboratory testing. Testing conducted by the Washington State Public Health Laboratories identified one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg in one unopened package of raw Foster Farms chicken collected from an ill person’s home in Washington. The unopened package did not contain information for the establishment in which the chicken was processed. Two samples of leftover rotisserie chicken were collected by California Department of Public Health from the homes of ill persons infected with outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg identified during the cluster investigation in South San Francisco; laboratory testing conducted by the California Food and Drug Laboratory Branch identified one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg in both samples of leftover rotisserie chicken. Additional testing by California also identified one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg in sample of leftover raw Foster Farms chicken collected from an ill person’s home. The outbreak strain isolated from this person was different from the strain isolated from the leftover chicken sample., Testing conducted by USDA-FSIS identified one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg in a sample of leftover raw Foster Farms chicken from an ill person’s home in California. The outbreak strain isolated from this person was different from the strain isolated from the leftover chicken sample., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS)External is a U.S. public health surveillance system that tracks antibiotic resistance in foodborne and other enteric bacteria found in people, raw meat and poultry, and food-producing animals. NARMS is an interagency partnership among CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), USDA, and state and local health departments., The NARMS human surveillance program at CDC monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from clinical specimens submitted to NARMS by public health laboratories. CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic resistance testing on a total of 68 clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected with each of the seven outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg. Of the 68 isolates tested, 24 (35%) were not resistant to any of the antibiotics tested by NARMS and 44 (65%) were drug resistant (defined as resistance to one or more antibiotics). Twenty-four (35%) of the 68 isolates were multidrug resistant (defined as resistance to one or more antibiotics in three or more drug classes). Not all drug-resistant isolates exhibited the same antibiotic resistance pattern. Isolates collected from ill persons were resistant to combinations of the following antibiotics: ampicillin, chloramphenicol, gentamicin, kanamycin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline. Although these antibiotics are not typically used to treat Salmonella blood infections or other severe Salmonella infections, antibiotic resistance can be associated with increased risk of hospitalization in infected individuals., Additionally, CDC’s NARMS laboratory received isolates from five chicken products produced by Foster Farms: four collected from ill people’s homes in California and Washington, and one collected from a warehouse chain store located in California.  Of the five isolates tested, one (20%) was not resistant to any of the antibiotics tested by NARMS and four (80%) were drug resistant. One (20%) of these five isolates was multidrug resistant. Not all drug-resistant isolates exhibited the same antibiotic resistance pattern. Isolates collected from chicken were resistant to combinations of the following antibiotics: kanamycin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline., The NARMS retail meat and poultry surveillance programExternal monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella and other bacteria isolated from raw retail meat and poultry. NARMS laboratorians isolated five of the seven outbreak strains from nine retail samples of Foster Farms chicken breasts and wings collected in California. Susceptibility testing was conducted on 8 of the 9 isolates; 8 out of 8 (100%) were drug resistant, and none (0%) were pansusceptible. Four out of the 8 (50%) isolates were multidrug resistant.  Not all isolates from poultry exhibited the same antibiotic resistance pattern. Isolates collected from poultry were resistant to combinations of the following antibiotics: ampicillin, chloramphenicol, gentamicin, kanamycin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline., During September 2013, FSIS conducted intensified in-facility testing for Salmonella at four Foster Farms production establishments in California and Washington. Six of the seven outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg were isolated from raw chicken samples collected from the three Foster Farms establishments in California., On October 7, 2013, USDA-FSIS issued a Public Health AlertExternal due to concerns that illnesses caused by strains of Salmonella Heidelberg were associated with raw chicken products produced by Foster Farms at three facilities in California. On October 10, 2013, USDA-FSIS announced that Foster Farms submitted and implemented immediate substantive changes to their slaughter and processing to allow for continued operations., On October 12External and October 17External, 2013, a California warehouse store initiated recalls of Foster Farms rotisserie chicken products due to possible Salmonella Heidelberg contamination. USDA-FSIS, CDC, the California Department of Public Health, and the San Mateo Public Health Department determined through epidemiologic and traceback investigations that there was a link between the rotisserie chicken products and illness., USDA-FSIS reinstated intensified sampling at the affected establishments following corrective actions in October 2013 and continues to monitor these establishments.  Since October 2013, there has been a steady decrease of Salmonella-positive samples in all three of the establishments after implementation of the corrective actions began., On July 3, 2014, Foster Farms recalledExternal an undetermined amount of chicken products that may be contaminated with a particular strain of Salmonella Heidelberg. The recall resulted from USDA-FSIS identifying one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg in an intact sample of Foster Farms brand chicken collected from the home of a person in California infected with the same strain. The chicken breasts were packaged with critical labeling information to associate the product with the establishment and a specific production date.  The ill person’s family purchased their chicken in March; however, it was stored in the family’s freezer and some of it was consumed in late April., Foster Farms has implemented and continues to utilize multiple interventions to reduce Salmonella throughout its entire poultry production process. This strategy includes interventions at the breeder level, at hatcheries, at grow-out farms, and at the processing plant where the final product is packaged.  Supported by data from continuous testing by Foster Farms, these interventions have reduced Salmonella prevalence to less than 5 percent in the Foster Farms establishments linked to this outbreak., FSIS has determined that process control measures undertaken by the firm to consistently minimize Salmonella contamination of raw chicken have been successful.  , , , A total of 634 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg were reported from 29 states and Puerto Rico from March 1, 2013 to July 11, 2014. Most of the ill persons (77%) were reported from California. Since the last update on July 4, 2014, a total of 13 additional ill persons were reported from 2 states: California (10) and Illinois (3)., Among 633 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from March 1, 2013 to July 11, 2014. Ill persons ranged in age from younger than 1 year to 93 years, with a median age of 18 years. Fifty percent of ill persons were male. Among 528 persons with available information, 200 (38%) reported being hospitalized. Fifteen percent of ill persons have developed blood infections as a result of their illness. Typically, approximately 5% of persons ill with Salmonella infections develop blood infections. No deaths have been reported., The current outbreak appears to be over as the number of reported infections has returned to the expected number for this time of year. Since some of the outbreak strains are reported to PulseNet even in the absence of an outbreak, several ill persons infected with these strains are still expected to be reported to CDC monthly., , , As of July 2, 2014, a total of 621 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from 29 states and Puerto Rico since March 1, 2013. Most of the ill persons (77%) have been reported from California. Since the last update on May 27, 2014, a total of 47 additional ill persons have been reported from 5 states: Alabama (1), California (39), Oregon (3), Washington (3), and West Virginia (1). Fifteen (32%) of these additional ill persons have illness onset dates in June. During this time of year, approximately 3 to 5 illnesses with the outbreak strains would be expected each week; recently, 6 to 9 illnesses have occurred each week., Among 608 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from March 1, 2013 to June 15, 2014. Ill persons range in age from younger than 1 year to 93 years, with a median age of 18 years. Fifty percent of ill persons are male. Among 504 persons with available information, 181 (36%) reported being hospitalized. Thirteen percent of ill persons have developed blood infections as a result of their illness. Typically, approximately 5% of persons ill with Salmonella infections develop blood infections. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak investigation is ongoing; however, since an increase in illnesses noted in February and March, there has been a decline in the weekly number of illnesses occurring. The number of illnesses is now approaching the expected number for this time of year.  Illnesses that began after June 2, 2014, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., On July 3, 2014, Foster Farms recalledExternal an undetermined amount of chicken products that may be contaminated with a particular strain of Salmonella Heidelberg. The recall resulted from USDA-FSIS identifying one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg in an intact sample of Foster Farms brand chicken collected from the home of a person infected with the same strain in California. The chicken breasts were packaged with critical labeling information to associate the product with the establishment and a specific production date. The ill person’s family purchased their chicken in March; however, it was stored in the family’s freezer and consumed in late April. Although the recalled chicken has production dates of March 7 through March 13, 2014, USDA-FSIS and CDC are concerned that the recalled chicken could still be in people’s freezers. Consumers should check their freezers for the recalled chicken and should not eat it., , , As of May 22, 2014, a total of 574 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from 27 states and Puerto Rico since March 1, 2013. Most of the ill persons (77%) have been reported from California. Since the last update on April 9, 2014, a total of 50 new ill persons have been reported from 8 states: Arizona (1), California (42), Georgia (1), Montana (1), Nevada (1), Oregon (1), Texas (1), and Utah (2). Since the last update, an average of 8 new ill persons have been reported each week to CDC., Among 560 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from March 1, 2013 to May 1, 2014. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 93 years, with a median age of 18 years. Fifty-one percent of ill persons are male. Among 478 persons with available information, 178 (37%) reported being hospitalized. Thirteen percent of ill persons have developed blood infections as a result of their illness. Typically, approximately 5% of persons ill with Salmonella infections develop blood infections. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that began after April 22, 2014, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., , , As of April 7, 2014, a total of 524 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from 25 states and Puerto Rico since March 1, 2013. Most of the ill persons (76%) have been reported from California. Since the last update on March 3, 2014, a total of 43 new ill persons have been reported from 5 states: Arizona (2), California (34), Michigan (1), Oregon (3), Texas (2), and Washington (1)., Among 518 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from March 1, 2013 to March 18, 2014. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 93 years, with a median age of 18 years. Fifty-one percent of ill persons are male. Among 437 persons with available information, 162 (37%) reported being hospitalized. Thirteen percent of ill persons have developed blood infections as a result of their illness. Typically, approximately 5% of persons ill with Salmonella infections develop blood infections. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that began after March 8, 2014, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Three hundred and ten (86%) of 361 ill persons interviewed to date report consuming chicken in the week before becoming ill. Among those who had brand information available, 119 (74%) of 161 ill persons reported that they had consumed Foster Farms brand chicken or another brand likely produced by Foster Farms., CDC and state and local public health partners continue to focus the investigation on interviewing ill persons about foods eaten and other exposures before becoming ill, continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons who have infections with outbreak-associated strains, and testing recent outbreak strains for antibiotic resistance. CDC is working closely with USDA-FSIS which is assessing interventions implemented at Foster Farms facilities to prevent future illnesses., CDC’s NARMS laboratory continues to conduct antimicrobial susceptibility testing on clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected with any of the seven outbreak strains. Of 61 isolates tested to date, 38 (62%) exhibited resistance to one or more antibiotics. Nineteen (31%) of the 61 isolates were multidrug resistant. To date, isolates collected from ill persons were resistant to combinations of the following antibiotics: ampicillin, chloramphenicol, gentamicin, kanamycin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline. Although these antibiotics are not typically used to treat Salmonella bloodstream infections or other severe Salmonella infections, antibiotic resistance can be associated with a higher risk of hospitalization in infected individuals. Isolates collected from ill persons reported in 2014 have exhibited similar patterns of antibiotic resistance as isolates collected from ill persons reported in 2013., , , This outbreak investigation continues. Previously, the outbreak appeared to be over, but recent findings indicate otherwise. The number of reported infections from all seven outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg returned to baseline levels in January and the outbreak appeared to be over, as noted in the previous update on January 16, 2014. However, the investigation continued and ongoing surveillance in February identified that infections from two of the previously rare outbreak strains have again exceeded the number of infections expected to be reported to PulseNet during this time of year., As of February 28, 2014, a total of 481 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from 25 states and Puerto Rico since March 1, 2013. Most of the ill persons (76%) have been reported from California., Since the last update on January 16, 2014, a total of 51 new ill persons have been reported from 5 states: Arizona (3), California (44), Hawaii (1), Tennessee (1), and Utah (2). CDC and state and local public health partners are focusing the investigation on interviewing ill persons about foods eaten and other exposures before becoming ill, continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons who have infections with outbreak-associated strains, and testing recent outbreak strains for antibiotic resistance., Information about illnesses is available from 472 persons.  The dates the illnesses began range from March 1, 2013 to February 11, 2014. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 93 years, with a median age of 18 years. Fifty-one percent of ill persons are male. Among 394 persons with available information, 151 (38%) reported being hospitalized. Thirteen percent of ill persons have developed blood infections as a result of their illness. Typically, approximately 5% of persons ill with Salmonella infections develop blood infections. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that began after January 29, 2014, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., The NARMS retail meat surveillance programExternal isolated one of the two outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg that has recently increased from a retail sample collected in California of Foster Farms brand chicken wings, purchased on January 27, 2014., Testing conducted by USDA-FSIS identified the other outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg that has recently increased in a leftover sample of raw chicken from an ill person’s home in California. The person became ill on January 11, 2014. The outbreak strain isolated from this person was different from the strain isolated from the leftover chicken sample. Using shopper card records obtained with permission from the ill person, investigators determined that the chicken was a brand likely produced by Foster Farms. However, no packaging was available with the tested product to confirm this and the production date of this sample is unknown., Antibiotic resistance testing results are not yet available for isolates from recent ill persons or isolates from recent food samples. Results of this testing will be reported when they become available., , , As of January 15, 2014, a total of 430 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from 23 states and Puerto Rico. Most of the ill persons (74%) have been reported from California. Since the last update on December 19, 2013, a total of 14 new ill persons have been reported from four states: Arizona (1), California (11), Idaho (1), and Virginia (1)., Among 418 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from March 1, 2013 to December 26, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 93 years, with a median age of 18 years. Fifty-two percent of ill persons are male. Among 359 persons with available information, 137 (38%) reported being hospitalized. Thirteen percent of ill persons have developed blood infections as a result of their illness. Typically, approximately 5% of persons ill with Salmonella infections develop blood infections. No deaths have been reported., The number of reported infections from the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg has returned to baseline levels indicating that this particular outbreak appears to be over. However, activities related to this investigation are ongoing. Illnesses that occurred after December 15, 2013, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., CDC’s NARMS laboratory continues to conduct antimicrobial susceptibility testing on clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected with any of the seven outbreak strains. Of 54 isolates tested to date, 32 (59%) exhibited resistance to one or more antibiotics. Fifteen (28%) of the 54 isolates were multidrug resistant. To date, isolates collected from ill persons were resistant to combinations of the following antibiotics: ampicillin, chloramphenicol, gentamicin, kanamycin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline. Although these antibiotics are not typically used to treat Salmonella bloodstream infections or other severe Salmonella infections, antibiotic resistance can increase the risk of hospitalization in infected individuals., Additionally, CDC’s NARMS laboratory received isolates from five chicken products produced by Foster Farms: four collected from ill people’s homes in California and Washington and one collected from a warehouse chain store located in California. Of the five isolates tested, four (80%) exhibited resistance to one or more antibiotics. One isolate (20%) was multidrug resistant. Isolates collected from chicken were resistant to combinations of the following antibiotics: gentamicin, kanamycin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline., , , As of December 18, 2013, a total of 416 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from 23 states and Puerto Rico. Most of the ill persons (74%) have been reported from California. Since the last update on November 19, 2013, a total of 27 new ill persons have been reported from 4 states: Arizona (2), California (22), Colorado (2), and Washington (1)., Among 403 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from March 1, 2013 to December 1, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 93 years, with a median age of 19 years. Fifty-one percent of ill persons are male. Among 340 persons with available information, 134 (39%) reported being hospitalized. Thirteen percent of ill persons have developed blood infections as a result of their illness. Typically, approximately 5% of persons ill with Salmonella infections develop blood infections. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after November 17, 2013 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., CDC’s NARMS laboratory continues to conduct antimicrobial susceptibility testing on clinical isolates collected from ill persons infected with all seven of the outbreak strains. Of 34 isolates tested to date, 19 (56%) of these isolates exhibited resistance to one or more antibiotics. Seven (21%) of the 34 isolates were multidrug resistant. To date, isolates collected from ill persons were resistant to combinations of the following antibiotics: ampicillin, chloramphenicol, gentamicin, kanamycin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline. Antibiotic resistance may increase the risk of hospitalization or possible treatment failure in infected individuals., Seven strains of Salmonella Heidelberg bacteria have been identified as being linked to this outbreak. Ill persons infected with each of the seven strains were linked to consumption Foster Farms chicken. Four of these strains are rarely reported to PulseNet. The other three strains are more common, with several ill persons infected with each strain reported to CDC monthly. The number of reported cases for these three strains was significantly higher than the number of cases expected during the outbreak period. Since illnesses due to several strains are more commonly reported, not all may be linked to consumption of Foster Farms chicken and may be part of the expected number of illnesses reported during this period., , , As of November 15, 2013, a total of 389 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from 23 states and Puerto Rico. Most of the ill persons (74%) have been reported from California. Since the last update on October 30, 2013, 28 new ill persons have been reported from 8 states: Arizona (2), California (20), Idaho (1), Illinois (1), Louisiana (1), Nevada (1), Oregon (1), and Virginia (1). One ill person from Texas has been removed from the CDC case count because the person does not meet the outbreak case definition., Among 380 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from March 1, 2013 to October 29, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 93 years, with a median age of 19 years. Fifty-two percent of ill persons are male. Among 312 persons with available information, 125 (40%) reported being hospitalized. Fourteen percent of ill persons have developed blood infections as a result of their illness. Typically, approximately 5% of persons ill with Salmonella infections develop blood infections. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after October 14, 2013 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., , , As of October 29, 2013, a total of 362 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from 21 states and Puerto Rico. Most of the ill persons (74%) have been reported from California. Since the last update on October 18, 2013, 24 new ill persons have been reported from six states: California (16), Colorado (3), Delaware (1), Idaho (1), Michigan (1), and Texas (2)., Among 356 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from March 1, 2013 to October 8, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 93 years, with a median age of 19 years. Fifty-two percent of ill persons are male. Among 259 persons with available information, 98 (38%) reported being hospitalized. Fourteen percent of ill persons have developed blood infections as a result of their illness. Typically, approximately 5% of persons ill with Salmonella infections develop blood infections. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after September 28, 2013 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks, , , As of October 17, 2013, a total of 338 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from 20 states and Puerto Rico. Most of the ill persons (75%) have been reported from California. Since the last update on October 11, 2013, 22 new ill persons have been reported from three states: Arizona (1), California (20), and Oregon (1)., Among 331 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from March 1, 2013 to October 2, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 93 years, with a median age of 18 years. Fifty-two percent of ill persons are male. Among 234 persons with available information, 93 (40%) reported being hospitalized. Fourteen percent of ill persons have developed blood infections as a result of their illness. Typically, approximately 5% of persons ill with Salmonella infections develop blood infections. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after September 17, 2013 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., Among the 252 ill persons reported in California, state and local health officials identified at least 25 ill persons as part of a cluster of illness. The ill persons consumed food purchased from the same Costco store location in South San Francisco in the week before they became sick. Based on interviews of ill persons, an association was identified between illness and consumption of cooked rotisserie chicken purchased from this store location. Shopper card information was successfully used to determine the specific food linked to illnesses and allowed investigators to identify the chicken involved as belonging to the Foster Farms brand. Ill persons gave permission for public health officials to retrieve purchase information based on shopper card numbers. This investigation is ongoing., Two samples of leftover rotisserie chicken were collected by public health officials from the home of ill persons in California infected with outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg. Laboratory testing conducted by the California Food and Drug Laboratory Branch identified one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg in both samples of leftover rotisserie chicken., On October 12, 2013, Costco’s El Camino Real store located in South San Francisco, California recalled more than 9,000 units (approximately 40,000 pounds) of rotisserie chicken productsExternal. The products subject to recall included 8,730 “Kirkland Signature Foster Farms”\x9d rotisserie chickens and 313 total units of “Kirkland Farm”\x9d rotisserie chicken soup, rotisserie chicken leg quarters, and rotisserie chicken salad.  The products were sold directly to consumers in the Costco store between September 11, 2013 and September 23, 2013. While the use-by date has passed and these products are no longer available for retail sale, USDA-FSIS is concerned that some product may be frozen in consumers’ freezers., On October 17, 2013, Costco’s El Camino Real store recalled an additional 14,093 units of rotisserie chicken productsExternal that may be contaminated with Salmonella Heidelberg. This is in addition to the 9,043 units that were recalled on October 12, 2013. The products subject to recall include 13,455 “Kirkland Signature Foster Farms”\x9d rotisserie chickens and 638 total units of “Kirkland Farm”\x9d rotisserie chicken soup, rotisserie chicken leg quarters, and rotisserie chicken salad. The products were sold directly to consumers in the Costco store between September 24, 2013 and October 15, 2013. Costco and the California Department of Public Health discovered through a follow-up investigation to the previous recall that additional product should be recalled. No illnesses have been reported in association with the product recalled on October 17, 2013.  According to USDA-FSIS, the problem with possibly contaminated rotisserie chicken products at this Costco location may be the result of cross-contamination after the cooking process in the preparation area., Seven strains of Salmonella Heidelberg bacteria have been identified as being linked to this outbreak. Ill persons infected with each of the seven strains were linked to consumption Foster Farms chicken. Four of these strains are rarely reported to PulseNet. The other three strains are more common, with several ill persons infected with each strain reported to CDC monthly. Since illnesses due to several strains are more commonly reported, not all may be linked to consumption of Foster Farms chicken and may be part of the expected number of illnesses reported during this period., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview them about foods eaten before becoming ill. USDA-FSIS is continuing to work closely with CDC and state partners during this investigation., , , As of October 11, 2013, a total of 317 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from 20 states and Puerto Rico. Most of the ill persons (73%) have been reported from California. Since the last update on October 8, 2013, a total of 39 additional ill persons have been identified from 9 states and Puerto Rico: Arizona (2), California (19), Florida (2), Kentucky (1), Missouri (5), Nevada (1), New Mexico (2), Puerto Rico (1), Texas (4), and Virginia (2). Of the 39 additional ill persons, two have estimated illness onset dates after September 24, 2013, the last illness onset date reported in the October 8, 2013 outbreak announcement. Since the last update, one ill person originally reported from Hawaii was found to be a resident of Florida. This person is now included in the Florida case count., Among 310 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from March 1, 2013 to September 26, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 93 years, with a median age of 20 years. Fifty-one percent of ill persons are male. Among 189 persons with available information, 79 (42%) reported being hospitalized. Thirteen percent of ill persons developed blood infections as a result of their illness. Typically, approximately 5% of persons ill with Salmonella infections develop blood infections. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after September 5, 2013 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., To date, seven strains of Salmonella Heidelberg have been included in this investigation based on epidemiologic, laboratory and traceback information. The information collected for cases associated with each strain indicates that each of the strains is linked to this outbreak of multidrug-resistant Salmonella Heidelberg infections and that Foster Farms brand chicken is the likely source., CDC’s NARMS laboratory conducted antibiotic-resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from ten ill persons infected with three of the seven outbreak strains. Nine of these isolates exhibited drug resistance to one or more commonly prescribed antibiotics. Of those, three were multidrug resistant. One isolate was susceptible to all antibiotics tested. To date, isolates collected from ill persons were resistant to combinations of the following antibiotics: ampicillin, chloramphenicol, gentamicin, kanamycin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline. Antimicrobial resistance may increase the risk of hospitalization or possible treatment failure in infected individuals., On October 10, 2013, USDA-FSIS announced that Foster Farms submitted and implemented immediate substantive changes to their slaughter and processing to allow for continued operations. FSIS inspectors will verify that these changes are being implemented on a continuous and ongoing basis. Additionally, the agency will continue intensified sampling and testing of chicken products from these facilities for at least the next 90 days., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview them about foods eaten before becoming ill. USDA-FSIS is continuing to work closely with CDC and state partners during this investigation., , , CDC is collaborating with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg infections. Public health investigators are using DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They are using data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. Seven strains of Salmonella Heidelberg bacteria have been identified as being linked to this outbreak. Four of these strains are rarely reported to PulseNet. The other three strains are more common, with several ill persons infected with each strain reported to CDC monthly. The DNA fingerprints of the Salmonella Heidelberg bacteria associated with the current outbreak include the strain that was also associated with a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg linked to Foster Farms brand chicken during 2012-2013., As of October 7, 2013, a total of 278 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from 17 states. Most of the ill persons (77%) have been reported from California. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Alaska (2), Arkansas (1), Arizona (11), California (213), Colorado (4), Connecticut (1), Florida (1), Hawaii (1), Idaho (2), Michigan (2), North Carolina (1), Nevada (8), Oregon (8), Texas (5), Utah (2), Washington (15) and Wisconsin (1)., Among 274 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from March 1 to September 24, 2013. Ill persons range in age from &lt;1 year to 93 years, with a median age of 20 years. Fifty-one percent of ill persons are male. Among 183 persons with available information, 76 (42%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day or week. This chart is called an epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after September 1, 2013 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. For more details, please see Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicate that consumption of Foster Farms brand chicken is the likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg infections., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. One hundred and five (80%) of 132 ill persons interviewed report consuming chicken prepared at home in the week before becoming ill. This proportion is significantly higher when compared with results from a survey of healthy persons Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] in which 65% reported consuming chicken prepared at home in the week before they were interviewed. Among those who had brand information available, 48 (79%) of 61 ill persons reported that they had consumed Foster Farms brand chicken or another brand likely produced by Foster Farms., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS)External retail meat surveillance program is an ongoing collaboration among the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s Center for Veterinary Medicine, CDC, and participating state public health laboratories. NARMS monitors antibiotic resistance in Salmonella, Campylobacter, Enterococcus, and Escherichia coli bacteria isolated from raw retail meats. NARMS laboratorians isolated four of the seven outbreak strains from five retail samples of Foster Farms chicken breasts and wings collected in California. Four of these isolates exhibited drug resistance to one or more commonly prescribed antibiotics. Of these, two were multidrug resistant (defined as resistance to three or more classes of antibiotics). Not all isolates from poultry exhibited the same antibiotic-resistance pattern. To date, isolates collected from poultry were resistant to combinations of the following antibiotics: ampicillin, chloramphenicol, gentamicin, kanamycin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline., Additionally, CDC’s NARMS laboratoryExternal conducted antibiotic-resistance testing on clinical isolates collected from five ill persons infected with two of the seven outbreak strains. Four of these isolates exhibited drug resistance to one or more commonly prescribed antibiotics. Of those, two were multidrug resistant. One isolate was susceptible to all antibiotics tested. To date, isolates collected from ill persons were resistant to combinations of the following antibiotics: ampicillin, chloramphenicol, gentamicin, kanamycin, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline. Antimicrobial resistance may increase the risk of hospitalization or possible treatment failure in infected individuals., Testing conducted by the Washington State Public Health Laboratories identified one of the outbreak strains of Salmonella Heidelberg in one leftover intact sample of raw Foster Farms chicken collected from an ill person’s home in Washington., Preliminary laboratory testing identified four of the seven outbreak strains from multiple chicken product samples at three Foster Farms facilities; additional analysis is ongoing. USDA-FSIS has issued a Public Health AlertExternal due to concerns that illnesses caused by strains of Salmonella Heidelberg are associated with raw chicken products produced by Foster Farms at three facilities in California. At this point in the investigation, FSIS is unable to link the illnesses to a specific product and a specific production period. The products were mainly distributed to retail outlets in California, Oregon and Washington State. Raw products from the facilities in question bear one of the establishment numbers inside a USDA mark of inspection or elsewhere on the package “P6137,” “P6137A,” and “P7632.”, CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview about foods eaten before becoming ill. USDA-FSIS is continuing to work closely with CDC and state partners during this investigation., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '9c332aea9e1e6166c622a0f7c13303b8e366a73f0be055f6b2f64ea970339700', 'headline': 'Salmonella | Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Mbandaka Infections Linked to Tahini Sesame Paste | May, 2013 | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 16, 26, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/montevideo-tahini-05-13/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted June 21, 2013 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., A total of 16 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Montevideo or Salmonella Mbandaka were reported from nine states., Collaborative investigation efforts of state, local, and federal public health and regulatory agencies indicated that tahini sesame paste distributed by Krinos Foods, LLC of Long Island City, New York was the source of this outbreak., , CDC collaborated with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Mbandaka infections linked to tahini sesame paste distributed by Krinos Foods, LLC of Long Island City, New York., Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints”\x9d of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. These strains of Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Mbandaka had very rarely been seen before in PulseNet. Before this outbreak, these strains of Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Mbandaka had been reported only 29 and 4 times, respectively., A total of 16 ill persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Montevideo (four persons) or Salmonella Mbandaka (12 persons) were reported from nine states. The number of ill persons identified in each state was as follows: California (1), Georgia (1), Iowa (1), Louisiana (1), Minnesota (2), New York (1), North Dakota (1), Texas (7), and Wisconsin (1)., Among persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from February 19, 2013 to May 25, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 81 years, with a median age of 24 years. Sixty-three percent of ill persons were female. Among seven ill persons with available information, one person was hospitalized and died. Salmonella infection was not considered a contributing factor in this person’s death., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked this outbreak to tahini sesame paste distributed by Krinos Foods, LLC of Long Island City, New York., During routine product testing at a retail store, the Minnesota Department of AgricultureExternal isolated Salmonella Montevideo from Krinos brand tahini sesame paste. Additional testing by the FDA isolated Salmonella Mbandaka from imported tahini sesame paste collected from shipments arriving from Turkey into the United States for distribution by Krinos Foods., On April 28, 2013, Krinos Foods, LLC of Long Island City, New York, recalled its tahini sesame paste. On May 9, 2013,Krinos Foods expanded its recall to include additional expiration datesExternal. The recalled lots have expiration dates from January 1, 2014 to June 8, 2014 and from October 16, 2014 to March 15, 2015., A search of the PulseNet database identified ill persons with the same strains of Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Mbandaka. In interviews, these ill persons answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Five (56%) of nine ill persons interviewed reported eating hummus. Three (75%) of four people (one infected with Salmonella Montevideo and two infected with Salmonella Mbandaka) who remembered the brand of tahini used in making the hummus reported consuming Krinos brand tahini sesame paste. Because tahini sesame paste is frequently used as an ingredient in many dishes, some ill persons may not know if they ate Krinos brand tahini sesame paste before their illness began., Testing conducted by the Minnesota Department of Agriculture laboratory isolated the outbreak strains of Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Mbandaka and Salmonella Maastricht from opened jars of Krinos brand tahini sesame paste from two different ill persons’ homes (one person infected with Salmonella Montevideo and one infected with Salmonella Mbandaka). A search of the PulseNet database did not identify any ill persons with the strain of Salmonella Maastricht infection isolated from of the opened jars of Krinos brand tahini sesame paste., On May 29, 2013, the FDA placed the Turkish importer of the sesame paste used to make Krinos brand tahini sesame paste on Import AlertExternal. This means that sesame paste from this importer may be detained by FDA when offered for import into the United States unless the importer can show that it is not contaminated with Salmonella., In May 2013, CDC was notified of an outbreak of 17 persons with Salmonella Mbandaka, Salmonella Montevideo, and Salmonella Maastricht infection in New Zealand investigated in November and December, 2012External. Illnesses were also linked to tahini sesame paste imported from the same company in Turkey as was implicated in the outbreak in the United States. All three outbreak strains were isolated from unopened tubs of tahini sesame paste sourced from the warehouse of the New Zealand distributorExternal., The outbreak strains in the New Zealand investigation matched the Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Mbandaka outbreak strains identified in the outbreak in the United States. Additionally, the New Zealand outbreak strain of Salmonella Maastricht matched the Salmonella Maastricht strain isolated from opened jars of Krinos brand tahini sesame paste from two ill persons’ homes in Minnesota., This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, many of these products have a long shelf-life, and they may still be in peoples’ homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat these products and potentially get sick. Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., , A total of 16 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Montevideo or Salmonella Mbandaka were reported from nine states. Since the last update, eight new ill people were reported from Georgia (1), Iowa (1), Louisiana (1), and Texas (5)., Among persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from February 19, 2013 to May 25, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 81 years, with a median age of 24 years. Sixty-three percent of ill persons were female. Among seven ill persons with available information, one person was hospitalized and died. Salmonella infection was not considered a contributing factor in this person’s death., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Mbandaka infections. Results from this ongoing investigation indicate that tahini sesame paste distributed by Krinos Foods, LLC of Long Island City, New York is the likely source of this outbreak.  , Public health investigators are using DNA “fingerprints”\x9d of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They are using data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. These strains of Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Mbandaka have very rarely been seen before in PulseNet. Before this outbreak, these strains of Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Mbandaka had been reported only 29 and 4 times, respectively., A total of eight ill persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Montevideo (two persons) or Salmonella Mbandaka (six persons) have been reported from six states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: California (1), Minnesota (2), New York (1), North Dakota (1), Texas (2), and Wisconsin (1)., Among persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from March 4, 2013 to April 30, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 75 years, with a median age of 24 years. Fifty percent of ill persons are female. Among four ill persons with available information, none reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after May 10, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. The recalled tahini sesame paste has a long shelf-life and may still be in people’s homes, and illnesses may continue to be reported. Please see the Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases for more details., During routine product testing at a retail store, the Minnesota Department of AgricultureExternal isolated Salmonella Montevideo from Krinos brand tahini sesame paste. Additional testing by the FDA isolated Salmonella Mbandaka from imported tahini sesame paste collected from shipments arriving in the United States for distribution by Krinos Foods., On April 28, 2013, Krinos Foods, LLC of Long Island City, New York, recalled its tahini sesame paste. On May 9, 2013, Krinos Foods expanded its recall to include additional expiration datesExternal. The recalled lots have expiration dates from January 1, 2014 to June 8, 2014 and from October 16, 2014 to March 15, 2015., A search of the PulseNet database identified ill persons with the same strains of Salmonella Montevideo and Salmonella Mbandaka. In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Four (100%) of four ill persons interviewed (two infected with Salmonella Montevideo and two with Salmonella Mbandaka) reported eating homemade hummus made with Krinos brand tahini sesame paste., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. FDA is continuing to work closely with CDC and state partners in this investigation., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '26ea2bb94371b076ba37aa17ec296af3fbffe6ef9d646fab160f7fd1a64090ac', 'headline': 'Salmonella | Salmonella Typhimurium Infections Linked to Live Poultry | Apr, 2013 | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 15, 48, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/typhimurium-live-poultry-04-13/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted November 1, 2013 1:30 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, live poultry, including those kept in backyard flocks, are an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States. More information about Salmonella from live poultry and the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection is available., Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others that sell or display chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry should continue to provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry. , , CDC collaborated with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, National Poultry Improvement Plan, and Veterinary Services to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to contact with chicks, ducklings, and other live baby poultry. Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak., A total of 356 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from 39 states: Alabama (2), Arizona (11), California (10), Colorado (44), Florida (6), Georgia (4), Idaho (3), Illinois (3), Indiana (10), Iowa (7), Kansas (19), Kentucky (4), Louisiana (10), Massachusetts (2), Michigan (1), Minnesota (5), Mississippi (6), Missouri (18), Montana (3), Nebraska (15), Nevada (1), New Hampshire (1), New Mexico (19), New York (17), North Dakota (6), Oklahoma (14), Oregon (12), Pennsylvania (1), South Carolina (1), South Dakota (10), Tennessee (3), Texas (41), Utah (13), Vermont (1), Virginia (1), Washington (19), West Virginia (1), Wisconsin (7), and Wyoming (5)., Among 348 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from March 4, 2013 to October 12, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 87 years, with a median age of 7 years. Fifty-seven percent of ill persons were children 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-one percent of ill persons were female. Among 240 persons with available information, 62 (26%) reported being hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked this outbreak to contact with chicks, ducklings, and other live baby poultry. The majority of traceback investigations identified Privett Hatchery in Portales, New Mexico as the source of the poultry linked to this outbreak., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. One hundred and eighty-nine (76%) of 250 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens, ducklings, ducks, turkeys, and goslings) before becoming ill. One hundred and forty-nine (95%) of 157 ill persons reported purchasing live poultry from 116 locations of 33 agricultural feed store companies. Ill persons also reported purchasing live poultry directly from mail-order hatcheries [4 (3%)], online [3 (2%)], as well as from another individual [2 (1%)], a farmers’ market [1 (&lt;1%)], and a flea market [1 (&lt;1%)]. One hundred and twenty-eight ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for one or more of the following reasons: eggs (58%), pets (41%), fun/hobby (21%), meat (9%), Easter present (5%), fair/exhibition (3%), school project (2%), pest control (2%), and to release to a lake or pond (2%)., Traceback investigations of live poultry purchased by ill persons from feed stores identified 18 mail-order hatcheries in multiple states. The majority of traceback investigations identified Privett Hatchery in Portales, New Mexico as the source of the poultry linked to this outbreak. Many mail-order hatcheries use a practice called drop shipping when one hatchery is not able to fill a customer’s order and a second hatchery is called upon to ship birds directly to the customer under the first hatchery’s name. Customers might not realize that the actual source of the purchased birds was a different hatchery than the one where the original order was placed., Environmental samples that were collected during an investigation at Privett Hatchery yielded the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium. The outbreak strain was identified from a sample collected in a duck pen. One (2.5%) of 40 samples collected from this hatchery yielded the outbreak strain., The owners of Privett Hatchery are fully cooperating with the New Mexico Department of Health, CDC, and the New Mexico Department of Agriculture to address this outbreak. Privett Hatchery is a participant in the U.S. Department of Agriculture National Poultry Improvement Plan (NPIP) program. The NPIP program is intended to eliminate certain strains of Salmonella that cause illness in poultry breeding flocks and hatcheries, but this program currently does not certify that these poultry are free from other strains of Salmonella that may cause human illness., Contact with live poultry can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Poultry typically appear healthy and clean but can be carrying Salmonella germs that can make people sick. Many ill persons in this outbreak reported bringing live poultry into their homes or reported kissing or cuddling with the birds. These behaviors increase a person’s risk of a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. Additional recommendations are available. Because 18 different mail-order hatcheries supplied live poultry to the 116 feed store locations identified during this outbreak investigation, these recommendations are important and apply to all live poultry regardless of the age of the birds or where they were purchased., Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or display chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry should provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry. Agricultural feed store staff should clean and disinfect live poultry display areas routinely, especially before new live poultry are added to the display. Additional recommendations are available., , A total of 356 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from 39 states. Since the last update on August 19, 2013, 41 new ill persons were reported from Alabama (1), Arizona (3), California (1), Colorado (7), Florida (1), Illinois (2), Kansas (3), Louisiana (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (2), Montana (1), Nebraska (1), North Dakota (1), Pennsylvania (1), South Dakota (1), Tennessee (1), Texas (9), Utah (2), Wisconsin (1), and Wyoming (1)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 4, 2013 and October 12, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than one year to 87 years, with a median age of 7 years. Fifty-seven percent of ill persons were 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-one percent of ill persons were female. Among 240 ill persons with available information, 62 (26%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak appears to be over. However, live poultry, including those kept in backyard flocks, are an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States., A total of 316 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 37 states. Since the last update on August 9, 2013, nine new ill persons have been reported from Arizona (1), Kansas (1), New Mexico (3), Oregon (2), Utah (1), and Wisconsin (1). This outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections is not related to the current outbreak of human Salmonella Infantis, Lille, Newport, and Mbandaka infections linked to live poultry., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 4, 2013 and July 28, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than one year to 87 years, with a median age of 6 years. Fifty-nine percent of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty percent of ill persons are female. Among 199 ill persons with available information, 51 (26%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after July 22, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. One hundred and fifty-eight (81%) of 196 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens, ducks, ducklings, turkeys, and goslings) before becoming ill. Ninety-seven percent of ill persons reported purchasing live poultry from agricultural feed stores. A total of 113 locations of feed stores representing 33 feed store companies were identified.  Ill persons also reported purchasing live poultry from a farmer’s market, a flea market, or directly from mail order hatcheries. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets., State health departments have tested samples collected from chicks in ill persons’ homes and retail locations. Samples collected by New Mexico, Vermont, and New York yielded the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium., Traceback investigations of live poultry purchased by ill persons from feed stores identified 18 mail-order hatcheries in multiple states. The majority of traceback investigations identified Privett Hatchery in Portales, New Mexico as the source of the poultry linked to this outbreak. Many mail-order hatcheries use a practice called drop shipping when one hatchery is not able to fill a customer’s order and a second hatchery is called upon to ship birds directly to the customer under the first hatchery’s name. Customers might not realize that the actual source of the purchased birds was a different hatchery than the one where the original order was placed., Environmental samples that were collected during an investigation at Privett Hatchery yielded the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium. The outbreak strain was identified from a sample collected in a duck pen. One (2.5%) of 40 samples collected from this hatchery yielded the outbreak strain. Additional laboratory testing is ongoing., The owners of Privett Hatchery are fully cooperating with the New Mexico Department of Health, CDC, and the New Mexico Department of Agriculture to address this outbreak. Privett Hatchery is a participant in the U.S. Department of Agriculture National Poultry Improvement Plan (NPIP) program. The NPIP program is intended to eliminate certain strains of Salmonella that cause illness in poultry breeding flocks and hatcheries, but this program currently does not certify that these poultry are free from other strains of Salmonella that may cause human illness., Contact with live poultry can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Poultry typically appear healthy and clean but can be carrying Salmonella germs that can make people sick. Many ill persons in this outbreak reported bringing live poultry into their homes or reported kissing or cuddling with the birds. These behaviors increase a person’s risk of a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. Additional recommendations are available. Because 18 different mail-order hatcheries supplied live poultry to the 113 feed store locations identified during this outbreak investigation, these recommendations are important and apply to all live poultry regardless of the age of the birds or where they were purchased., Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or display chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry should provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry. Agricultural feed store staff should clean and disinfect live poultry display areas routinely, especially before new live poultry are added to the display., A total of 307 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 37 states. Since the last update, 38 new ill persons have been reported from California (2), Colorado (6), Florida (1), Georgia (1), Iowa (1), Mississippi (1), Missouri (1), Nebraska (3), New York (2), Oklahoma (2), South Carolina (1), South Dakota (2), Tennessee  (1), Texas (4), Utah (5), Washington (2), Wisconsin (2), and Wyoming (1). This outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections is not related to the current outbreak of human Salmonella Infantis, Lille, Newport, and Mbandaka infections linked to live poultry., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 4, 2013 and July 23, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than one year to 87 years, with a median age of 6 years. Sixty percent of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty percent of ill persons are female. Among 193 ill persons with available information, 49 (25%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after July 13, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., In interviews, ill people reported purchasing live baby poultry (e.g., chicks, ducklings) from multiple feed stores and mail-order hatcheries. Ongoing traceback investigations to determine the ultimate source of Salmonella Typhimurium infected live poultry linked to this outbreak have been challenging because of the complicated distribution network for these birds., A total of 271 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 37 states. Since the last update, 47 new ill persons have been reported from Arizona (2), California (1), Colorado (7), Florida (2), Idaho (3), Indiana (3), Iowa (1), Kansas (3), Kentucky (3), Louisiana (3), Minnesota (1), Mississippi (1), Missouri (1), Montana (1), Nebraska (1), New Mexico (3), Oklahoma (4), Pennsylvania (1), Texas (2), Utah (1), West Virginia (1), Wisconsin (1), and Wyoming (1). This outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections is not related to the current outbreak of human Salmonella Infantis, Lille, Newport, and Mbandaka infections linked to live poultry., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between and March 4, 2013 and June 10, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than one year to 87 years, with a median age of six years. Sixty-two percent of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-one percent of ill persons are female. Among 162 ill persons with available information, 43 (27%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after June 4, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., A total of 224 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 34 states. Since the last update, 78 new ill persons have been reported from Alabama (1), California (3), Colorado (8), Georgia (3), Illinois (1), Indiana (3), Iowa (3), Kansas (3), Kentucky (1), Louisiana (1), Massachusetts (2), Mississippi (1), Missouri (7), Montana (1), Nebraska (1), New Mexico (3), New York (7), North Dakota (4), Oregon (5), South Dakota (1), Tennessee (1), Texas (7), Utah (1), Washington (7), Wisconsin (2), and Wyoming (1). This outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections is not related to the current outbreak of human Salmonella Infantis, Lille, Newport, and Mbandaka infections linked to live poultry., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between and March 4, 2013 and May 20, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than one year to 81 years, and 62% of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-one percent of ill persons are female. Among 141 ill persons with available information, 37 (26%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 12, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., CDC is collaborating with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate multiple outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to contact with live poultry. This outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections is not related to the current outbreak of human Salmonella Infantis, Lille, Newport, and Mbandaka infections linked to live poultry., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak., As of May 7, 2013, a total of 146 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 26 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Arizona (5), California (3), Colorado (16), Florida (2), Indiana (4), Iowa (2), Kansas (10), Louisiana (5), Minnesota (2), Mississippi (3), Missouri (9), Nebraska (9), Nevada (1), New Hampshire (1), New Mexico (10), New York (8), North Dakota (1), Oklahoma (9), Oregon (5), South Dakota (6), Texas (19), Utah (3), Vermont (1), Virginia (1), Washington (10), and Wyoming (1)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between and March 4, 2013 and April 26, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than one year to 70 years, and 66% of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-one percent of ill persons are female. Among 91 ill persons with available information, 27 (30%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after April 14, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases for more details., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Eighty-three (94%) of 88 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens, ducks, ducklings) before becoming ill. Seventy-three (97%) of 75 ill persons with available purchase information reported purchasing live baby poultry from various locations of 13 different agricultural feed store companies in multiple states. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets., State health departments have tested samples collected from chicks in ill persons’ homes and retail locations. Samples collected by New Mexico and Vermont yielded the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium., Traceback investigations to determine the source of live baby poultry from homes of ill persons have identified multiple feed stores and mail-order hatcheries in multiple states. Investigations are ongoing to determine the source of the live poultry linked to this outbreak., Contact with live poultry can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Some ill persons in this outbreak reported bringing the live poultry into their homes and kissing or cuddling with the live poultry. These behaviors increase a person’s risk of a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. Additional recommendations are available. These recommendations are important and apply to all live poultry regardless of the age of the birds or where they were purchased., Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or display chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry should provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry., CDC is collaborating with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Mbandaka, and Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to contact with chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of these outbreaks. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. The USDA-NPIP is a program that is intended to eliminate certain strains of Salmonella that cause illness in poultry breeding flocks and hatcheries, but does not certify that these live poultry are free from other strains of Salmonella that may cause human illness., In interviews, ill people reported purchasing live baby poultry (e.g., chicks, ducklings) from multiple feed stores and mail-order hatcheries. Investigations are ongoing to determine the source of the live poultry in these outbreaks., Contact with live poultry, including baby or adult birds, can be a source of human Salmonella infections. These birds typically appear healthy and clean, but can be shedding germs that can make people sick. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. Additional recommendations are available. These recommendations are important and apply to all live poultry regardless of the age of the birds or where they were purchased., Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or display chicks, ducklings and other live poultry should provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase.This should include information about the risk of acquiring Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry., This investigation is ongoing and CDC will update the public when additional information is available., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '5211240d901e81b0e97b7860e63ae200bc9dab89dc0b9d28211ba0500a942843', 'headline': 'Salmonella | Salmonella Infections Linked to Live Poultry | Apr, 2013 | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 17, 6, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/live-poultry-04-13/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted November 8, 2013 2:30 PM ET, , This outbreak appears to be over. However, live poultry, including those kept in backyard flocks, are an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States. More information about Salmonella from live poultry and the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection is available., , , CDC collaborated with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, National Poultry Improvement Plan, and Veterinary Services to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Lille, Salmonella Newport, and Salmonella Mbandaka infections linked to contact with chicks, ducklings, and other live baby poultry sourced from Mt. Healthy Hatcheries in Ohio. Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. This outbreak of human Salmonella Infantis, Lille, Newport, and Mbandaka infections was not related to the outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to live poultry., A total of 158 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Lille, Salmonella Newport, or Salmonella Mbandaka were reported from 30 states: Alabama (3), Arizona (3), California (1), Colorado (3), Connecticut (3), Delaware (2), Florida (1), Georgia (1), Illinois (3), Indiana (3), Kentucky (5), Maine (1),Maryland (1), Massachusetts (8), Minnesota (3), Mississippi (2), Montana (1), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (2), New York (11), North Carolina (14), Ohio (22), Pennsylvania (14), South Dakota (1), Tennessee (13), Utah (2), Vermont (2), Virginia (4), West Virginia (20), and Wisconsin (8)., Among 157 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from March 4, 2013 to October 9, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 91 years, with a median age of 17 years. Forty-one percent of ill persons were children 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-three percent of ill persons were female. Among 103 persons with available information, 29 (28%) reported being hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked this outbreak to contact with chicks, ducklings, and other live baby poultry sourced from Mt. Healthy Hatcheries in Ohio., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Eighty-two (86%) of 95 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens, ducklings, ducks, turkeys, and goslings) before becoming ill. Sixty-five (94%) of 69 ill persons reported purchasing live poultry from various locations of a single chain of agricultural feed stores in multiple states. Sixty-three (95%) of 66 ill persons with available purchase information reported buying chicks and ducklings that were sourced from a single mail-order hatchery in Ohio, Mt. Healthy Hatcheries. Fifty-five ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for one or more of the following reasons: eggs (60%), pets (18%), fun/hobby (18%), meat (7%), Easter present (5%), to release to a lake or pond (5%), fair/exhibition (4%), and pest control (2%)., State health departments tested samples collected from live poultry and the environments where the live poultry live and roam from ill persons’ homes. Birds from these homes were sourced from Mt. Healthy Hatcheries in Ohio. Thirty-nine samples from different homes in Minnesota, Ohio, New York, and Vermont yielded the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis and Salmonella Mbandaka., This is the same mail-order hatchery that was associated with the 2012 outbreak of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, and Salmonella Lille infections. Moreover, the strain of Salmonella Infantis identified in this outbreak is the same strain seen in the 2012 outbreak. Public health and agriculture officials continue to work with this hatchery and have made recommendations for improvement. This hatchery uses multiple source flocks to obtain eggs and chicks, so it is unclear where the contamination originated. Mt. Healthy Hatcheries is a participant in the USDA National Poultry Improvement Plan (NPIP) program. The NPIP program is intended to eliminate certain strains of Salmonella that cause illness in poultry breeding flocks and hatcheries, but this program currently does not certify that these poultry are free from other strains of Salmonella that may cause human illness., Contact with live poultry can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Poultry typically appear healthy and clean but can be carrying Salmonella germs that can make people sick. Many ill persons in this outbreak reported bringing live poultry into their homes or reported kissing or cuddling with the birds. These behaviors increase a person’s risk of a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. Additional recommendations are available. These recommendations are important and apply to all live poultry regardless of the age of the birds or where they were purchased., Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or display chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry should provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry. Agricultural feed store staff should clean and disinfect live poultry display areas routinely, especially before new live poultry are added to the display. Additional recommendations are available., , , A total of 158 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Lille, Salmonella Newport, or Salmonella Mbandaka were reported from 30 states. Since the last update on July 18, 2013, 34 new ill persons were reported from Colorado (1), Delaware (1), Florida (1), Indiana (2), Kentucky (1), Massachusetts (1), Montana (1), New York (1), North Carolina (4), Ohio (3), Pennsylvania (6), South Dakota (1), Tennessee (1), Utah (2), Virginia (1), West Virginia (5), and Wisconsin (2)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 4, 2013 and October 9, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than one year to 91 years, with a median age of 17 years. Forty-one percent of ill persons were 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-three percent of ill persons were female. Among 103 ill persons with available information, 29 (28%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak appears to be over. However, live poultry, including those kept in backyard flocks, are an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States., A total of 125 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Lille, Salmonella Newport, or Salmonella Mbandaka have been reported from 26 states. Since the last update, 28 new ill persons have been reported from Arizona (3), Colorado (2), Delaware (1), Georgia (1), Illinois (2), Indiana (1), Massachusetts (2), New York (2), North Carolina (5), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (1), Tennessee (3), West Virginia (2), and Wisconsin (1). This outbreak of human Salmonella Infantis, Lille, Newport, and Mbandaka infections is not related to the current outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to live poultry., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between and March 4, 2013 and July 5, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than one year to 91 years, and 41% of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-four percent of ill persons are female. Among 78 ill persons with available information, 23 (15%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after June 23, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., A total of 98 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Lille, Salmonella Newport, or Salmonella Mbandaka have been reported from 21 states. Since the last update, 37 new ill persons have been reported from Alabama (3), California (2), Connecticut (3), Illinois (2), Kentucky (4), Maine (1), Maryland (1), Massachusetts (5), Minnesota (3), Mississippi (2), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (2), New York (8), North Carolina (5), Ohio (17), Pennsylvania (7), Tennessee (9), Virginia (3), Vermont (2), West Virginia (13), and Wisconsin (5)., Based on ongoing epidemiologic investigations, additional ill persons infected with Salmonella serotypes Lille and Newport reported contact with chicks, ducklings, and other live baby poultry from Mt. Healthy Hatchery in Ohio, and these strains have been added to the outbreak. The strains of Salmonella identified in the current outbreak were also seen during the 2012 outbreak of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, and Salmonella Lille infections linked to Mt. Healthy Hatchery in Ohio. This outbreak of human Salmonella Infantis, Lille, Newport, and Mbandaka infections is not related to the current outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to live poultry., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between and March 8, 2013 and May 15, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than one year to 91 years, and 44% of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-four percent of ill persons are female. Among 60 ill persons with available information, 16 (27%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 8, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., CDC is collaborating with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate multiple outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to live poultry. This outbreak of human Salmonella Infantis and Salmonella Mbandaka infections is not related to the current outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to live poultry., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak., As of May 7, 2013, a total of 61 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis and Salmonella Mbandaka have been reported from 18 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (2), Connecticut (3), Illinois (1), Kentucky (2), Massachusetts (3), Minnesota (3), Mississippi (1), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (1), New York (5), North Carolina (5), Ohio (8), Pennsylvania (5), Tennessee (9), Virginia (2), Vermont (1), Wisconsin (2), and West Virginia (7)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between and March 8, 2013 and April 22, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than one year to 88 years, and 48% of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-six percent of ill persons are female. Among 34 ill persons with available information, 12 (35%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after April 15, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases for more details., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Thirty-six (100%) of 36 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens, ducks, ducklings) before becoming ill. Thirty-four (97%) of 35 ill persons with available purchase information reported purchasing live baby poultry from various locations of a single chain of agricultural feed stores in multiple states. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets., State health departments have tested samples collected from chicks in ill persons’ homes and retail locations. Samples collected by Minnesota, Ohio, and Vermont yielded the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis and Salmonella Mbandaka., Findings of multiple traceback investigations of live baby poultry from homes of ill persons have identified Mt. Healthy Hatchery in Ohio as the source of chicks and ducklings. This hatchery uses multiple source flocks to obtain eggs and chicks, so it is unclear at this time where the contamination originated. This is the same mail-order hatchery that was associated with the 2012 outbreak of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, and Salmonella Lille infections. Moreover, the strain of Salmonella Infantis identified in the current outbreak is the same strain seen in the 2012 outbreak. Public health and agriculture officials continue to work with this hatchery and have made recommendations for improvement. The hatchery is a member of the USDA National Poultry Improvement Plan, a program that is intended to eliminate certain strains of Salmonella that cause illness in poultry breeding flocks and hatcheries, but does not certify that these live poultry are free from other strains of Salmonella that may cause human illness., Contact with live poultry can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Some ill persons in this outbreak reported bringing the live poultry into their homes and kissing or cuddling with the live poultry. These behaviors increase the risk a person’s risk of a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. Additional recommendations are available. These recommendations are important and apply to all live poultry regardless of the age of the birds or where they were purchased., Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or display chicks, ducklings and other live poultry should provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry., CDC is collaborating with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) to investigate multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Mbandaka, and Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to contact with chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of these outbreaks. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. The USDA National Poultry Improvement Plan is a program that is intended to eliminate certain strains of Salmonella that cause illness in poultry breeding flocks and hatcheries, but does not certify that these live poultry are free from other strains of Salmonella that may cause human illness., In interviews, ill people reported purchasing live baby poultry (e.g., chicks, ducklings) from multiple feed stores and mail-order hatcheries. Investigations are ongoing to determine the source of the live poultry in these outbreaks., Contact with live poultry, including baby or adult birds, can be a source of human Salmonella infections. These birds typically appear healthy and clean, but can be shedding germs that can make people sick. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. Additional recommendations are available. These recommendations are important and apply to all live poultry regardless of the age of the birds or where they were purchased., Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or display chicks, ducklings and other live poultry should provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase.This should include information about the risk of acquiring Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry., This investigation is ongoing and CDC will update the public when additional information is available., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '2411dc18a8b0a990898d25adc848a327e33b62fcf519eafa28c62c2f6c2bdd3f', 'headline': 'Salmonella | Saintpaul Infections Linked to Imported Cucumbers | Apr, 2013 | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 15, 1, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/saintpaul-04-13/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted June 20, 2013 4:00 PM ET, , This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., , A total of 84 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Saintpaul were reported from 18 states., , CDC collaborated with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Saintpaul infections linked to imported cucumbers supplied by Daniel Cardenas Izabal and Miracle Greenhouse of Culiacán, Mexico and distributed by Tricar Sales, Inc. of Rio Rico, Arizona., Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. This PFGE pattern has rarely been seen before in PulseNet and in the past typically caused 0-5 cases per year., A total of 84 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Saintpaul were reported from 18 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state was as follows: Arizona (11), California (29), Colorado (2), Idaho (2), Illinois (3), Louisiana (1), Maryland (1), Massachusetts (1), Minnesota (9), Nevada (1), New Mexico (2), North Carolina (3), Ohio (3), Oregon (2), South Dakota (2), Texas (7), Virginia (3), and Wisconsin (2)., Among persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from January 12, 2013 to April 28, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 89 years, with a median age of 27 years. Sixty-two percent of ill persons were female. Among 60 persons with available information, 17 (28%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Epidemiologic and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked this outbreak to imported cucumbers supplied by Daniel Cardenas Izabal and Miracle Greenhouse of Culiacán, Mexico and distributed by Tricar Sales, Inc. of Rio Rico, Arizona., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures in the 7 days before becoming ill. Thirty-four (69%) of 49 ill persons interviewed reported eating various types of cucumbers purchased or consumed at multiple locations or restaurants. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey of healthy persons in which 44% reported eating cucumbers in the 7 days before they were interviewed., Reviewing shipping records collected with assistance from partner state agencies, FDA traced cucumbers eaten by six ill people to the distributer, Tricar Sales, Inc., and further, to the suppliers, Daniel Cardenas Izabal and Miracle Greenhouse. On April 24, 2013, the suppliers were placed on Import AlertExternal. Cucumbers from these two firms will be denied admission into the United States unless the suppliers show that they are not contaminated with Salmonella., This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is still an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella and steps people can take to reduce their risk for infection can be found on the CDC Salmonella web page., , , A total of 84 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Saintpaul were reported from 18 states. Since the last update, three new ill persons were reported from Arizona (2) and California (1)., Among persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from January 12, 2013 to April 28, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 89 years, with a median age of 27 years. Sixty-two percent of ill persons were female. Among 60 persons with available information, 17 (28%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., A total of 81 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Saintpaul have been reported from 18 states. Since the last update, 8 new ill persons have been reported from Arizona (2), Minnesota (1), North Carolina (2), Ohio (2), and Virginia (1). This PFGE pattern has rarely been seen before in PulseNet and in the past typically caused 0-5 cases per year., Among persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates range from January 12, 2013 to April 19, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 89 years, with a median age of 27 years. Sixty-three percent of ill persons are female. Among 56 persons with available information, 16 (29%) ill persons have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after April 7, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate an outbreak of Salmonella Saintpaul infections linked to imported cucumbers supplied by Daniel Cardenas Izabal and Miracle Greenhouse of Culiacán, Mexico and distributed by Tricar Sales, Inc. of Rio Rico, Arizona., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak., A total of 73 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Saintpaul have been reported from 18 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Arizona (9), California (28), Colorado (1), Idaho (2), Illinois (3), Louisiana (1), Massachusetts (1), Maryland (1), Minnesota (8), Nevada (1), New Mexico (2), North Carolina (1), Ohio (1), Oregon (2), South Dakota (2), Texas (6), Virginia (2), and Wisconsin (2)., Among persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates range from January 12, 2013 to April 6, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 80 years, with a median age of 23 years. Sixty percent of ill persons are female. Among 51 persons with available information, 14 (27%) ill persons have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after March 23, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases for more details., Preliminary epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicate that exposure to imported cucumbers supplied by Daniel Cardenas Izabal and Miracle Greenhouse of Culiacán, Mexico and distributed by Tricar Sales, Inc. of Rio Rico, Arizona is the likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella Saintpaul infections., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods eaten and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Thirty (67%) of 45 ill persons interviewed reported eating various types of cucumbers purchased or consumed at multiple locations or restaurants. This proportion is significantly higher than results from a survey of healthy persons Cdc-pdf[PDF – 787 KB] in which 44% reported eating cucumbers in the 7 days before they were interviewed. An additional 5 (11%) of 45 ill persons reported that they may have eaten cucumbers. No other foods that were reported eaten by interviewees were associated with illness., Reviewing shipping records, with assistance from its partner state agencies, FDA traced cucumbers eaten by six ill people to the distributer, Tricar Sales, Inc., and further, to the suppliers, Daniel Cardenas Izabal and Miracle Greenhouse. On April 24, 2013, the suppliers were placed on Import AlertExternal. Cucumbers from these two firms will be denied admission into the United States unless the suppliers show that they are not contaminated with Salmonella., The number of illnesses reported has declined substantially since a peak in early March. Currently, there is no evidence that contaminated cucumbers are still on the market. However, due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported, additional ill persons may be identified. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten with before becoming ill., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'c840781aa2e5426044b41baa0d56b1940bf091bc9254592a884aaf488c266cd2', 'headline': 'CDC - Salmonella Heidelberg Infections Linked to Chicken - Salmonella - Feb, 2013', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 19, 13, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/heidelberg-02-13/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted July 10, 2013 05:00 PM ET, , This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., , , CDC collaborated with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg infections. Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., A total of 134 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg were reported from 13 states between June 4, 2012 and May 6, 2013. The number of ill persons identified in each state with the outbreak strain was as follows: Alabama (1), Alaska (13), California (11), Hawaii (1), Idaho (2), Massachusetts (1), Montana (2), New York (1), Oregon (40), Utah (3), Virginia (1), Washington (57), and West Virginia (1)., Among 134 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from June 4, 2012 to April 16, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 94 years, with a median age of 22 years. Fifty-five percent of ill persons were female. Among 105 persons with available information, 33 (31%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., Epidemiologic and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicated that consumption of Foster Farms brand chicken was the most likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg infections., In interviews, 55 (79%) of 70 ill persons reported consuming chicken in the week before becoming ill. An additional eight ill persons reported that chicken was prepared in the home, but they either did not consume it or did not specify that it was consumed. Among those who had brand information available, 36 (71%) of 51 ill persons reported exposure to Foster Farms brand chicken or another brand likely produced by Foster Farms., Testing conducted by the Washington State Public Health Laboratories identified the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg in four intact samples of chicken collected from three ill persons’ homes in Washington, which were traced back to two Foster Farms slaughter establishments.  , The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS)External retail meat surveillance program is an ongoing collaboration among the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s Center for Veterinary Medicine, CDC, and participating state public health laboratories. NARMS monitors antimicrobial resistance in Salmonella, Campylobacter, Enterococcus, and Escherichia coli isolated from raw retail meats. The NARMS retail meat surveillance program isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg from Oregon and Washington Foster Farms retail chicken samples in October 2012. From 2002 to 2011, Salmonella was isolated from 1,503 (13%) of 11,417 retail chicken samples tested by NARMS; of these Salmonella isolates, 233 (16%) were Salmonella Heidelberg. Among these, 48 (21%) matched the outbreak strain by PFGE, of which 47 (98%) were isolates from Foster Farms retail chicken samples. From 2001 to 2012, Salmonella was isolated from 3,094 (4%) of 83,743 raw meat and poultry samples collected for testing by USDA-FSIS from establishments in the western United States. Among these, 264 (9%) were serotype Heidelberg, 45 (17%) of which matched the outbreak strain. The Heidelberg serotype is broadly distributed across the poultry slaughter establishments and different geographic regions of the United States., Additionally, NARMS at CDC conducted antimicrobial susceptibility testing on isolates collected from 14 ill persons infected with the outbreak strain and isolates from the four intact samples of chicken taken from ill persons’ homes. Twelve of 14 isolates from ill persons were susceptible to all antibiotics tested, but two were resistant to multiple antibiotics, including amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, ampicillin, and ceftriaxone. Ceftriaxone is commonly used to treat invasive Salmonella infections and is particularly important for treating such infections in children. Three of the four isolates from chicken samples were susceptible to all antibiotics tested, but one was resistant to gentamicin, streptomycin, and sulfisoxazole. Individuals infected with antibiotic-resistant Salmonella may not respond to treatment or may have more severe infections than those infected with susceptible strains., USDA-FSIS conducted an investigation to determine the source of infections in this outbreak. As part of this investigation, USDA-FSIS sent an incident investigation team to one Foster Farms slaughter establishment. The results of the investigation are being finalized., The current outbreak appears to be over as the number of reported infections has returned to baseline levels by the beginning of May. However, it is not unusual for raw poultry from any producer to have Salmonella. It is important for consumers to follow food safety tips when handling raw poultry to help protect themselves and others from foodborne illness., , , A total of 134 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg were reported from 13 states. Since the last update, six new ill persons were reported from Alaska (2), California (2), Oregon (1), and Washington (1)., Among 134 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from June 4, 2012 to April 16, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 94 years, with a median age of 22 years. Fifty-five percent of ill persons were female. Among 105 persons with available information, 33 (31%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., Since June 4, 2012, a total of 128 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from 13 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state with the outbreak strain is as follows: Alabama (1), Alaska (11), California (9), Hawaii (1), Idaho (2), Massachusetts (1), Montana (2), New York (1), Oregon (39), Utah (3), Virginia (1), Washington (56), and West Virginia (1). Since the last update, four new ill persons have been reported from Alabama (1), California (2), and Oregon (1)., Among 128 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from June 4, 2012 to February 4, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 94 years, with a median age of 22 years. Fifty-five percent of ill persons are female. Among 103 persons with available information, 32 (31%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Clinical specimens collected after February 4, 2013 might not yet be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Testing conducted by the Washington State Public Health Laboratories identified the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg in four intact samples of chicken collected from three ill persons’ homes in Washington., The National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS)External retail meat surveillance program is an ongoing collaboration among the U.S. Food and Drug Association Center for Veterinary Medicine, CDC, and participating state public health laboratories. NARMS monitors antimicrobial resistance in Salmonella, Campylobacter, Enterococcus, and Escherichia coli isolated from raw unprocessed retail meats. From 2002 to 2011, Salmonella was isolated from 1503 (13%) of 11417 retail chicken samples tested by NARMS. Salmonella Heidelberg was identified in 233 retail chicken samples tested by 11 state public health laboratories. Among these 233 isolates, 48 (21%) matched the outbreak strain, and 47 (98%) of those were isolated from Foster Farms retail chicken samples.   , Additionally, NARMS at CDC conducted antimicrobial susceptibility testing on isolates collected from 14 ill persons infected with the outbreak strain and isolates from the four intact samples of chicken taken from ill persons’ homes. Twelve of fourteen isolates from ill persons were susceptible to all antibiotics tested, but two were resistant to multiple antibiotics, including amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, ampicillin, and ceftriaxone. Ceftriaxone is commonly used to treat invasive Salmonella infections and is particularly important for treating such infections in children. Three of the four isolates from chicken samples were susceptible to all antibiotics tested, but one was resistant to gentamicin, streptomycin, and sulfisoxazole. Individuals infected with antibiotic-resistant Salmonella may not respond to treatment or may have more severe infections than those infected with susceptible strains., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg infections. Public health investigators are using DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They are using data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., Since June 4, 2012, a total of 124 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Heidelberg have been reported from 12 states. Most of the ill persons have been reported from two states, Washington (56) and Oregon (38). At this time, CDC is not releasing the names of the other states until it is determined how these illnesses are linked to this outbreak., Among 124 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from June 4, 2012, to January 6, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 94 years, with a median age of 23 years. Fifty-five percent of ill persons are female. Among 97 persons with available information, 31 (32%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported. Ill persons continue to be reported at lower levels in the most recent months, which may represent a “winter lull”\x9d in Salmonella infections., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day or week. This chart is called an epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after January 6, 2013 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. For more details, please see Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases., Epidemiologic and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicate that consumption of chicken is the most likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella Heidelberg infections. Washington and Oregon have identified Foster Farms brand chicken as the most likely source of the infections in their states. Approximately 81% of ill persons interviewed report consuming chicken in the week before becoming ill. Investigations are ongoing to determine the specific type and source of chicken that might be linked with illness., FSIS is currently conducting an investigation to determine the source of infections in this outbreak. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. FSIS is continuing to work closely with CDC and state partners during this investigation., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'd7ccd7a3a3c2265be6560d51749ecb246b834fbd1a057a4e5823443f370243db', 'headline': 'CDC - Salmonella Typhimurium Infections Linked to Ground Beef - Salmonella', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 14, 42, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/typhimurium-01-13/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted March 15, 2013 3:00 PM ET, , This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., , A total of 22 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from 6 states., , CDC collaborated with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to ground beef produced by Jouni Meats, Inc. and Gab Halal Foods. Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. This PFGE pattern has rarely been seen before in PulseNet and in the past typically caused 0-1 cases per month., A total of 22 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from 6 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state was as follows: Arizona (1), Illinois (2), Iowa (1), Michigan (9), Pennsylvania (1), and Wisconsin (8)., Among persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from December 9, 2012 to February 20, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from 2 years to 87 years, with a median age of 45 years. Fifty-five percent of ill persons were male. Among 14 persons with available information, 7 (50%) ill persons were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This particular outbreak appears to be over. While the use-by date of the recalled ground beef has passed, consumers might still have recalled ground beef in their homes if the ground beef was frozen at home. Consumers should check their freezers for recalled ground beef products and should not eat them., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked this outbreak to ground beef produced by Jouni Meats, Inc. and Gab Halal Foods., Initial investigations focused on seven ill persons in Michigan (6) and Arizona (1) who reported eating at the same restaurant before their illness began. All seven of these ill persons reported eating raw ground beef kibbeh (a dish typically made of finely ground red meat, usually beef, minced onions, and bulghur wheat) at this restaurant before becoming ill., An additional nine ill persons were interviewed and answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Although several of these ill persons reported eating beef prior to becoming ill, a likely source was not identified that linked these illnesses with the illnesses at the restaurant., Results of antibiotic susceptibility testing indicated that this strain of Salmonella was susceptible to commonly prescribed antibiotics., On January 24, 2013, Jouni Meats, Inc. recalled approximately 500 pounds of ground beef productsExternal. On January 25, 2013, Gab Halal Foods recalled approximately 550 pounds of ground beef productsExternal. While the use-by date has passed and these products are no longer available for retail sale, FSIS is concerned that some product may be frozen in consumers’ freezers. Consumers should not eat the recalled ground beef, and retailers and food service establishments should not serve it., Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella infections, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., , , A total of 22 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from 6 states. Since the last update, four new ill persons were reported from Wisconsin (3) and Pennsylvania (1)., Among persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from December 9, 2012 to February 20, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from 2 years to 87 years, with a median age of 45 years. Fifty-five percent of ill persons were male. Among 14 persons with available information, 7 (50%) ill persons were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., A total of 18 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 5 states. Two new cases have been reported from Wisconsin since the last update., Among persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from December 9, 2012 to January 7, 2013. Ill persons range in age from 2 years to 87 years, with a median age of 47 years. Fifty percent of ill persons are female. Among 14 persons with available information, 7 (50%) patients reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after January 24, 2013 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections. Public health investigators are using DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They are using data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., A total of 16 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 5 states. The number of ill people identified in each state with the outbreak strain is as follows: Arizona (1), Illinois (2), Iowa (1), Michigan (9), and Wisconsin (3)., Among 16 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from December 9, 2012 to January 7, 2013. Ill persons range in age from 2 years to 87 years, with a median age of 48 years. Forty-three percent of ill persons are female. Among 13 persons with available information, 7 (53%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported. Preliminary results of antibiotic susceptibility testing indicate that this strain of Salmonella Typhimurium is susceptible to commonly prescribed antibiotics., This PFGE pattern has rarely been seen before in PulseNet and in the past typically caused 0-1 case per month. The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day or week. This chart is called an epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after January 3, 2013 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. For more details, please see Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases., Epidemiologic and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicate that ground beef produced by Jouni Meats, Inc. and Gab Halal Foods are likely sources of this outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections., Initial investigations focused on six ill persons in Michigan and one ill person in Arizona who reported eating at the same restaurant before their illness began. All seven of these ill persons reported eating raw ground beef kibbeh (a dish typically made of finely ground red meat, usually beef, minced onions, and bulghur wheat) at this restaurant before becoming ill. Investigations are ongoing to determine if the additional nine ill persons may be linked to the recalled products., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. FSIS is continuing to work closely with CDC and state partners during this investigation. CDC will update the public on the progress of this investigation as information becomes available., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '435faa677eb3edef0d5716339303c1c2b0b476ffdad4c6f628441218f9c1ea4f', 'headline': 'CDC - Salmonella Bredeney Infections Linked to Peanut Butter', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 9, 13, 4, 5, 21, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/bredeney-09-12/index.html', 'main_text': '[Posted November 30, 2012 12:15 PM ET, , This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., , CDC collaborated with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Bredeney infections linked to Trader Joe’s Valencia Peanut Butter, manufactured by Sunland, Inc. of Portales, New Mexico., Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., A total of 42 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bredeney were reported from 20 states: Arizona (1), California (7), Connecticut (3), Illinois (1), Louisiana (1), Massachusetts (3), Maryland (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), Missouri (2), New Jersey (2), New Mexico (1), New York (2), Nevada (1), North Carolina (3), Pennsylvania (2), Rhode Island (1), Texas (5), Virginia (2), West Virginia (2)., Among 39 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from June 14, 2012 to September 21, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 79 years, with a median age of 7 years. Sixty-one percent of ill persons were children under the age of 10 years. Fifty-nine percent of ill persons were male. Among 36 persons with available information, 10 (28%) reported being hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, many of these products have a long shelf-life, and they may still be in peoples’ homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat these products and potentially get sick., Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked this outbreak to Trader Joe’s Valencia Peanut Butter, manufactured by Sunland, Inc. of Portales, New Mexico., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Twenty-five (78%) of 33 ill persons interviewed reported shopping at Trader Joe’s locations across the United States. Twenty-three (92%) of 25 ill persons report eating Trader Joe’s Valencia Creamy Salted Peanut Butter made with Sea Salt in the week before becoming ill. Two (8%) of 25 ill persons report eating Trader Joe’s Valencia Peanut Butter with Roasted Flaxseed. Trader Joe’s Valencia Creamy Salted Peanut Butter made with Sea Salt and Valencia Peanut Butter with Roasted Flaxseed are manufactured by Sunland, Inc. All 25 (100%) of these ill persons reported eating one of the two Trader Joe’s branded peanut butters covered by the Sunland, Inc. recall., On September 22, 2012, Trader Joe’s voluntarily recalled its Creamy Salted Valencia Peanut Butterexternal icon and removed the product from all store shelves. The product was manufactured for Trader Joe’s by Sunland, Inc., of Portales, New Mexico. On September 24, 2012, Sunland, Inc. announced a voluntary recall of its peanut butter and other products containing nuts and seedsexternal icon, manufactured between May 1, 2012 and September 24, 2012. The Sunland, Inc. recall was further expanded on October 4, 2012 and October 12, 2012, to include over 300 products, including raw and roasted shelled and in-shell peanuts., Testing conducted by the Washington State Department of Agriculture laboratory, the New Jersey Department of Health laboratory, and the Virginia Division of Consolidated Laboratory Services isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bredeney from opened jars of Trader Joe’s Valencia Creamy Peanut Butter made with Sea Salt collected from ill persons’ homes., The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) conducted an inspection of Sunland, Inc. manufacturing facilities in Portales, New Mexico pdf icon[PDF', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'dce521865196bf791767a6466bf642100ecac5517026749ac9baa7f11365f858', 'headline': 'CDC - Salmonella Typhimurium Infections Linked to Hedgehogs', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 14, 31, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/typhimurium-hedgehogs-09-12/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted June 14, 2013 11:45 AM ET, , Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., , A total of 26 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from 12 states., , CDC collaborated with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Animal Care, to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to contact with pet hedgehogs purchased from multiple sources in different states., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak., A total of 26 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from 12 states: Alabama (1), Idaho (1), Illinois (1), Indiana (1), Louisiana (1), Michigan (3), Minnesota (3), Missouri (1), New Hampshire (1), Ohio (5), Oregon (1), and Washington (7)., Among 26 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from December 26, 2011 to April 8, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 91 years, with a median age of 15 years. Thirty-five percent of ill persons were children 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-eight percent of ill persons were female. Among 23 persons with available information, 8 (35%) reported being hospitalized. One death associated with Salmonella infection was reported in Washington., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked this outbreak to contact with pet hedgehogs. During interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Twenty (80%) of 25 ill persons interviewed reported contact with pet hedgehogs or their environments before becoming ill. Some ill persons specifically mentioned contact with African Pygmy hedgehogs., State health department laboratories and the USDA National Veterinary Services Laboratory in Ames, Iowa tested hedgehog and environmental samples collected from ill persons’ homes. Several fecal samples from pet hedgehogs and environmental samples from areas where pet hedgehogs lived or were bathed in patient households yielded the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium., Findings of multiple traceback investigations of pet hedgehogs from homes of ill persons identified multiple sources in different states as the source of the hedgehogs. Among 17 ill persons with available purchase information, hedgehogs were reportedly purchased from the following sources: 10 (59%) were purchased from USDA-licensed breeders, 1 (5%) was purchased from a USDA-licensed pet store, 3 (18%) were purchased from breeders that were either not USDA-licensed or their licensure status was unknown, and 3 (18%) were purchased from private individuals. A single source of the hedgehogs was not identified., At this time, no further updates are planned for this outbreak investigation. However, contact with hedgehogs continues to be a source of human Salmonella infections. You should know how to protect yourself and your family from illness spread between people and hedgehogs. Hedgehogs can be carrying Salmonella bacteria but appear healthy and clean and show no signs of illness. It is very important to wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching hedgehogs or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children., Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., , , A total of 26 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium were reported from 12 states. Three new ill persons from Louisiana, Missouri, and New Hampshire were reported since the last case count update on April 16, 2013., Among 26 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from December 26, 2011 to April 8, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 91 years, with a median age of 15 years. Thirty-five percent of ill persons were children 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-eight percent of ill persons were female. Among 23 persons with available information, 8 (35%) reported being hospitalized. One death associated with Salmonella infection was reported in Washington., A total of 23 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 9 states. Since the last update, 3 new cases have been reported from Idaho (1) and Ohio (2)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between December 26, 2011 and March 5, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 91 years, with a median age of 14 years. Thirty-nine percent of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Sixty-one percent of ill persons are female. Among 20 ill persons with available information, 7 (35%) have been hospitalized. One death associated with Salmonella infection has been reported in Washington., Illnesses that occurred after March 19, 2013 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Nineteen (86%) of 22 ill persons interviewed reported contact with pet hedgehogs or their environments before becoming ill. Investigations are ongoing to determine the type and source of hedgehogs that might be linked with illness. Ill persons with available purchase information reported purchasing pet hedgehogs from multiple breeders in several states., The United States Department of Agriculture Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) Animal Care is currently assisting CDC to identify the sources of hedgehogs linked to ill persons. State health departments have also tested additional environmental and hedgehog samples collected from ill persons’ homes. The outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium was isolated from Illinois environmental samples of a hedgehog’s wheel, ramp, feed area, and bedding as well as from the pet hedgehog’s feces.  The outbreak strain was also isolated from an Ohio pet hedgehog’s feces., A total of 20 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 8 states. Since the last update, 4 cases have been reported from Illinois (1), Ohio (1), Minnesota (1), and Washington (1)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between December 26, 2011 and December 31, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 91 years, with a median age of 13 years. Forty-five percent of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-five percent of ill persons are female. Among 13 ill persons with available information, 4 (31%) have been hospitalized. One death associated with Salmonella infection has been reported in Washington., Illnesses that occurred after January 4, 2013 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Fourteen (93%) of 15 ill persons interviewed reported contact with hedgehogs or their environments before becoming ill. Some ill persons specifically mentioned contact with African Pygmy hedgehogs. Investigations are ongoing to determine the type and source of hedgehogs that might be linked with illness. Ill persons with available purchase information reported purchasing pet hedgehogs from multiple breeders in several states., The United States Department of Agriculture Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) Animal Care is currently conducting traceback investigations of hedgehogs purchased from USDA-licensed breeders linked to ill persons. In addition, state health departments have tested environmental and hedgehog samples collected from ill persons’ homes. The outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium was isolated from a Minnesota environmental sample of a container and sink in which a pet hedgehog was bathed. The outbreak strain was also isolated from a second hedgehog purchased after the first hedgehog and case-patient in Minnesota became ill., A total of 16 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 7 states. Since the last update, two cases have been reported from Oregon (1) and Washington (1)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between December 26, 2011 and November 2, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 62 years, and 50% of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Sixty-four percent of ill persons are female. Among 10 ill persons with available information, 3 (30%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after December 17, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., CDC is collaborating with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Animal Care Program (USDA-APHIS-AC) to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella Typhimurium infections linked to hedgehogs purchased from multiple breeders. Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE., These outbreaks can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after August 14, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases for more details., Contact with hedgehogs can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Salmonella germs are shed in their droppings and can easily contaminate their bodies and anything in areas where these animals live and roam. You should always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching hedgehogs or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children., As of September 5, 2012, a total of 14 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 6 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (1), Indiana (1), Michigan (3), Minnesota (2), Ohio (2), and Washington (5). The outbreak strain has been rarely seen in the past., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between December 26, 2011 and August 13, 2012. Infected individuals range in age from less than 1 year to 62 years, and 50% of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Sixty-two percent of ill persons are female. Among 10 ill persons with available information, 3 (30%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Ten (100%) of 10 ill persons interviewed reported contact with hedgehogs or their environments before becoming ill. Some ill persons specifically mentioned contact with African Pygmy hedgehogs. Investigations are ongoing to determine the type and source of hedgehogs that might be linked with illness. Ill persons with available purchase information reported purchasing pet hedgehogs from multiple breeders in several states., USDA-APHIS-AC is currently conducting traceback investigations of hedgehogs purchased from USDA-licensed breeders linked to ill persons. In addition, state health departments have tested environmental and hedgehog samples collected from ill persons’ homes. Two environmental samples from areas where hedgehogs lived or were bathed in patient households yielded the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'b96eb98e5ca87f4708c7b7db3e071b16d1a6a78ee6e6efb513e4f822941d0a09', 'headline': 'CDC - Salmonella Braenderup Infections Associated with Mangoes - Salmonella', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 14, 17, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/braenderup-08-12/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted October 11, 2012 3:00 PM ET, , This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., , A total of 127 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup were reported from 15 states., Collaborative investigation efforts of state, local, and federal public health and regulatory agencies indicated that mangoes were the source of this outbreak., , CDC collaborated with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Braenderup infections linked to mangoes originating from Agricola Daniella of Sinaloa, Mexico., Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., A total of 127 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup were reported from 15 states: California (99), Delaware (1), Hawaii (4), Idaho (1), Illinois (2), Maine (1), Michigan (1), Montana (1), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (1), New York (3), Oregon (1), Texas (2), Washington (8), and Wisconsin (1). This PFGE pattern has been seen before in PulseNet, and in the past typically caused 2 to 3 cases per month. Therefore, some reported cases may not be part of this outbreak., Among 127 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from July 3, 2012 to September 1, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 33 years. Fifty-six percent of ill persons were female. Among 101 persons with available information, 33 (33%) reported being hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is still an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked this outbreak of Salmonella Braenderup to mangoes originating from Agricola Daniella of Sinaloa, Mexico., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Fifty-one (63%) of 81 ill persons interviewed reported consuming mangoes in the week before their illness began., On August 22 and 23, 2012, the California Department of Public Health (CDPH) conducted an epidemiological study by comparing foods eaten by 37 ill persons and 46 well persons.  Ill persons were asked about food consumption in the week before illness onset. Well persons were asked about food consumption during the same time period as matched ill persons.  Preliminary analysis of this study indicated that eating mangoes was associated with illness. Ill persons (59%) were significantly more likely than well persons (22%) to report eating mangoes. No other type of food was associated with illness in this study., CDPH and FDA conducted traceback investigations for mangoes purchased by ill persons to identify a common source of contamination. Traceback analysis determined that mangoes purchased by ill persons originated from Agricola Daniella of Sinaloa, Mexico., Laboratory testing conducted by the FDA isolated Salmonella from four mangoes collected from warehouse locations in the United States. These four mangoes originated from Agricola Daniella of Sinaloa, Mexico. These samples did not yield Salmonella Braenderup and no human illnesses could be linked to the Salmonella serotypes isolated from these mangoes., During July and August, 2012, a similar strain of Salmonella Braenderup caused 21 illnessesExternal in Canada that were also linked to mangoes, leading to a recall of certain Daniella brand mangoes., On August 29, 2012, Splendid Products of Burlingame, California, voluntarily recalled certain lots of Daniella brand mangoes, a product of Sinaloa, Mexico., On September 13, 2012, the FDA warned consumers against eating mangoes from Agricola DaniellaExternal, a mango supplier with multiple plantations and a single packing house located in Sinaloa, Mexico. FDA placed Agricola Daniella on Import AlertExternal. This means that Agricola Daniella mangoes will be denied admission into the United States unless the importer shows they are not contaminated with Salmonella, such as by using private laboratories to test the mangoes., During August 2012, CDC began collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of 16 Salmonella Worthington infections from 3 states: California (12), New Mexico (1), and Washington (3).These ill persons were reported from similar states and during the same time period as seen in the Salmonella Braenderup outbreak. One ill person in the Salmonella Braenderup outbreak was also infected with Salmonella Worthington. In interviews with the Salmonella Worthington ill persons, 8 (89%) of 9 ill persons reported consuming mangoes in the week before their illness began. These data suggested a possible connection between the two outbreaks. Traceback investigations were not conducted to determine the source of mangoes for these ill persons. Salmonella Worthington was not isolated during laboratory testing of mangoes. These 16 cases were not included in the overall case count reported above., Among the persons with reported dates available, illnesses with Salmonella Worthington began between July 19, 2012 and September 12, 2012. Infected individuals ranged in age from less than 1 year old to 86 years old, and the median age was 65 years. Sixty-three percent of patients were female. Among the 13 patients with available information, 3 (23%) were hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., , A total of 127 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup were reported from 15 states. Since the last update, six new cases were reported from California., Among persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from July 3, 2012 to September 1, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 33 years. Fifty-six percent of ill persons were female. Among 101 persons with available information, 33 (33%) patients reported being hospitalized. No deaths were reported., A total of 121 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup have been reported from 15 states. The 17 new cases are from 4 states: California (13), Hawaii (1), Illinois (1), and Washington (2)., Among persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from July 3, 2012 to August 27, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 30 years. Fifty-four percent of ill persons are female. Among 73 persons with available information, 25 (34%) patients reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after August 20, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., On September 13, 2012, the FDA warned consumers against eating mangoes from Agricola DaniellaExternal, a mango supplier with multiple plantations and a single packing house located in Sinaloa, Mexico. Testing by the FDA has found Salmonella in mangoes from this producer., FDA has placed Agricola Daniella on Import AlertExternal. This means that Agricola Daniella mangoes will be denied admission into the United States unless the importer shows they are not contaminated with Salmonella, such as by using private laboratories to test the mangoes.  , A total of 105 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup have been reported from 16 states. The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: California (80), Delaware (1), Hawaii (3), Idaho (1), Illinois (1), Louisiana (1), Maine (1), Michigan (1), Montana (1), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (1), New York (3), Oregon (1), Texas (2), Washington (6), and Wisconsin (1)., Among persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from July 3, 2012 to August 11, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 30 years old. Fifty-four percent of ill persons are female. Among 69 persons with available information, 25 (36%) patients reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after August 6, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., On August 29, 2012, Splendid Products of Burlingame, California, voluntarily recalled certain lots of Daniella brand mangoes, a product of Mexico, because they were one possible source contributing to the multistate outbreak of Salmonella Braenderup infections., The recalled mangoes can be identified by the Daniella brand sticker and one of the following PLU numbers: 3114, 4051, 4311, 4584 or 4959. The mangoes were sold at various retail stores throughout the United States between July 12, 2012 and August 29, 2012., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Braenderup infections. Joint investigation efforts indicate that mangoes are a likely source of this outbreak.   , Public health investigators are using DNA “fingerprints”\x9d of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They are using data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., A total of 103 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Braenderup have been reported from 16 states. The majority of ill persons (78) have been reported from California. This number may change as more cases are confirmed. Most persons became ill during July. Among persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from July 3, 2012 to August 11, 2012. Ill persons range in age from 1 to 86 years, with a median age of 32 years old. Fifty-five percent of ill persons are female. Among 69 persons with available information, 25 (36%) patients reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., This PFGE pattern has been seen before in PulseNet, and in the past typically caused 2 to 3 cases per month. Therefore, some reported cases may not be part of this outbreak. Illnesses that occurred after August 5, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., State public health officials are interviewing ill persons to obtain information regarding foods they might have eaten and other exposures in the week before illness. Preliminary information indicates that mangoes are a likely source for the Salmonella Braenderup infections. Approximately 70% of ill persons interviewed report consuming mangoes in the week before becoming ill. Among ill persons in California, approximately 80% are of Hispanic ethnicity. Many of the ill persons in California report purchasing mangoes from Hispanic markets or grocery stores. Investigations are ongoing to determine the specific type and source of mangoes that might be linked with illness., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. FDA is continuing to work closely with CDC and state partners during this investigation. CDC will update the public on the progress of this investigation as information becomes available., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '39eafc67365832339bc56268976ce034d7f548063ed8f3fd7dfce8e10c28e157', 'headline': 'CDC - Salmonella Typhimurium and Salmonella Newport Infections Linked to Cantaloupe - Salmonella', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 16, 44, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/typhimurium-cantaloupe-08-12/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted October 5, 2012 3:15 PM ET, , This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., , A total of 261 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Typhimurium (228 persons) and Salmonella Newport (33 persons) were reported from 24 states., , CDC collaborated with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium and Salmonella Newport infections linked to cantaloupe originating from Chamberlain Farms Produce, Inc. of Owensville, Indiana., Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. Since the PFGE pattern of Salmonella Typhimurium connected with this outbreak is fairly common (typically associated with 10 to 15 cases of foodborne illness per month in the United States), a second test, Multiple-Locus Variable-number tandem repeat Analysis (MLVA), was used in addition to PFGE to define the outbreak strain., A total of 261 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium and Salmonella Newport were reported from 24 states: Alabama (25), Arkansas (6), Florida (1), Georgia (13), Illinois (36), Indiana (30), Iowa (9), Kentucky (66), Maryland (1), Michigan (8), Minnesota (2), Mississippi (7), Missouri (17), Montana (1), New Jersey (2), North Carolina (5), Ohio (5), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (4), Tennessee (8), Texas (2), Virginia (1), and Wisconsin (9). The number of ill persons reported declined in certain states from previous reports since MLVA in now being used to define the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium., Among 257 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from July 6, 2012 to September 16, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 100 years, with a median age of 47 years. Fifty-five percent of ill persons were female. Among 163 persons with available information, 84 (51%) reported being hospitalized. Three deaths were reported in Kentucky. Results of antibiotic susceptibility testing indicated that this strain of Salmonella is susceptible to commonly prescribed antibiotics., This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is still an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked this outbreak to cantaloupe originating from Chamberlain Farms Produce, Inc. of Owensville, Indiana., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Eighty-one (65%) of 123 ill persons interviewed reported consuming cantaloupe in the week before their illness began., Laboratory testing conducted by the Kentucky Division of Laboratory Services isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium from two cantaloupes collected from a retail location in Kentucky. Traceback investigations indicated that these cantaloupes originated from Chamberlain Farms., From August 14-16, 2012, FDA investigators collected samples from surface areas at the farm as well as samples of cantaloupe at Chamberlain FarmsCdc-pdfExternal. Samples of cantaloupe collected at Chamberlain Farms showed the presence of Salmonella Typhimurium bacteria with a DNA fingerprint that matched the outbreak strain., On August 22, 2012, Chamberlain Farms, Inc. voluntarily recalled cantaloupeExternal grown on its farm. Records available at the time indicated that the product was initially shipped to Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri, Tennessee, Ohio, Illinois, and Wisconsin, although further shipment was likely.  , During August 2012, CDC began collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of 33 Salmonella Newport infections. The geographic distribution, dates of illness onset, and initial interview information suggested a possible connection between the Salmonella Newport outbreak and the Salmonella Typhimurium outbreak linked to Chamberlain farms., Among 21 people in the Salmonella Newport outbreak for whom information was available, 13 (61%) reported eating cantaloupe in the 7 days before illness. As part of the ongoing investigation at Chamberlain Farms, FDA collected and tested samples of cantaloupe. One of the samples yielded Salmonella Newport with a PFGE pattern indistinguishable from the cluster of Salmonella Newport infections described above. Based on an epidemiologic link and results of laboratory testing, CDC combined these two investigations and grouped the two associated PFGE patterns together as the “outbreak strains.”, Also as part of the ongoing investigation at Chamberlain Farms, the State of Indiana collected and tested samples of watermelon grown at the farm. One of the samples yielded Salmonella Newport with a different PFGE pattern. This pattern was indistinguishable from another cluster of 25 ill persons with Salmonella Newport infections in 8 states. Interviews did not identify a clear link between these illnesses and consumption of melons., On October 3, 2012, FDA issued a document that lists observations Cdc-pdf[PDF – 2 pages]External made by the FDA investigators during the inspection of Chamberlain Farms., This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella infections, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., , , Since the PFGE pattern of Salmonella Typhimurium connected with this outbreak is fairly common (typically associated with 10 to 15 cases per month in the United States), a second test, Multiple-Locus Variable-number tandem repeat Analysis (MLVA), was used in addition to PFGE to define the outbreak strain., A total of 261 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium and Salmonella Newport were reported from 24 states: Alabama (25), Arkansas (6), Florida (1), Georgia (13), Illinois (36), Indiana (30), Iowa (9), Kentucky (66), Maryland (1), Michigan (8), Minnesota (2), Mississippi (7), Missouri (17), Montana (1), New Jersey (2), North Carolina (5), Ohio (5), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (4), Tennessee (8), Texas (2), Virginia (1), and Wisconsin (9). The number of ill persons reported declined in certain states from previous reports since MLVA is now being used to define the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium., Among 257 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from July 6, 2012 to September 16, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 100 years, with a median age of 47 years. Fifty-five percent of ill persons were female. Among 163 persons with available information, 84 (51%) reported being hospitalized. Three deaths were reported in Kentucky., A total of 270 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium and Salmonella Newport have been reported from 26 states. The 66 new cases are from 18 states: Alabama (3), Arkansas (1), Georgia (5), Iowa (2), Illinois (10), Indiana (11), Kentucky (7), Maryland (1), Michigan (1), Missouri (8), Mississippi (2), Montana (1), North Carolina (2), Ohio (4), Oklahoma (1), South Carolina (2), Virginia (1), and Wisconsin (4)., Among 270 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from July 6, 2012 to August 30, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 100 years, with a median age of 49 years. Fifty-five percent of ill persons are female. Among 196 persons with available information, 101 (52%) reported being hospitalized. Three deaths have been reported in Kentucky., Illnesses that occurred after August 20, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., During August 2012, CDC began collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Newport infections. Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicate that cantaloupes grown by Chamberlain Farms in Indiana are a likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella Newport infections. Among 30 persons for whom information is available in this outbreak, illness onset dates range from July 9, 2012 to August 18, 2012. Ill persons range in age from 4 years to 80 years, with a median age of 60 years. Forty-three percent of patients are female. Among 23 persons with available information, 11 (47%) reported being hospitalized.  No deaths have been reported.  The geographic distribution, dates of illness onset, and initial interview information suggested a possible connection between this outbreak and the Salmonella Typhimurium outbreak linked to Chamberlain farms. Among 21 people in the Salmonella Newport outbreak for whom information is available, 13 (61%) reported eating cantaloupe in the 7 days before illness., As part of the ongoing investigation at Chamberlain Farms, FDA collected and tested samples of cantaloupe. One of these samples yielded Salmonella Newport with a PFGE pattern (pattern .0807) indistinguishable from the cluster of Salmonella Newport infections described above. Based on an epidemiologic link and results of laboratory testing, CDC has combined these two investigations and grouped the two associated PFGE patterns together as the “outbreak strains.”, Also as part of the ongoing investigation at Chamberlain Farms, the State of Indiana collected and tested samples of watermelon grown at the farm. One of these samples yielded Salmonella Newport with a different PFGE pattern (.0149). This pattern is indistinguishable from another cluster of 25 ill persons with Salmonella Newport infections in 8 states currently being investigated by state and federal officials. Investigations are ongoing to determine if there is a link between these illnesses and consumption of melons., A total of 204 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 22 states. The 26 new cases are from 12 states: Arkansas (2), Florida (1), Georgia (1), Illinois (3), Indiana (4), Iowa (1), Kentucky (7), Minnesota (1) Missouri (1), North Carolina (2), Ohio (1), and Tennessee (2)., Among 149 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from July 7, 2012 to August 18, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 100 years, with a median age of 50 years. Fifty-nine percent of ill persons are female. Among 149 persons with available information, 78 (52%) reported being hospitalized. Two deaths have been reported in Kentucky., Illnesses that occurred after August 7, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., From August 14 to 16, FDA investigators collected samples from surface areas at the farm as well as samples of cantaloupe at Chamberlain Farms. Samples of cantaloupe collected at Chamberlain Farms show the presence of Salmonella Typhimurium bacteria with a DNA fingerprint that matches the outbreak strain., A total of 178 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 21 states. The 37 new cases are from 13 states: Alabama (6), Georgia (2), Illinois (4), Indiana (5), Kentucky (6), Massachusetts (2), Minnesota (1), Mississippi (3), Missouri (3), New Jersey (1), Ohio (1), Texas (1), and Wisconsin (2). Since the last update cases have been reported from one additional state, Massachusetts., Among 121 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from July 7, 2012 to August 9, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 100 years, with a median age of 48 years. Fifty-nine percent of ill persons are female. Among 121 persons with available information, 62 (51%) reported being hospitalized. Two deaths have been reported in Kentucky., Illnesses that occurred after July 31, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., On August 22, 2012, Chamberlain Farms Produce, Inc. of Owensville, Indiana voluntarily recalled cantaloupeExternal grown on its farm, because it may be one source contributing to the multistate outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections., Records available currently indicate that this product was initially shipped to Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri, Tennessee, Ohio, Illinois, and Wisconsin, although further shipment was likely., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections. Joint investigation efforts indicate that cantaloupe grown in southwestern Indiana is a likely source of this outbreak.  As a result of the initial investigations by the state health departments in Indiana and Kentucky, a farm in southwestern Indiana has contacted its distributors, which reach outside Indiana into other states, and is withdrawing its cantaloupe from the market place.The farm has agreed to cease distributing cantaloupes for the rest of the growing season., Public health investigators are using DNA “fingerprints”\x9d of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They are using data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., A total of 141 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium have been reported from 20 states.  The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows:  Alabama (7), Arkansas (3), California (2), Georgia (1), Illinois (17), Indiana (13), Iowa (7), Kentucky (50), Michigan (6), Minnesota (3), Missouri (9), Mississippi (2), New Jersey (1), North Carolina (3), Ohio (3), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (3), Tennessee (6), Texas (1), and Wisconsin (2)., Among persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from July 7, 2012 to August 4, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 to 92 years, with a median age of 49 years old. Fifty-five percent of ill persons are female. Among 64 persons with available information, 31 (48%) patients reported being hospitalized. Two deaths have been reported in Kentucky., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. This pattern has been seen before in PulseNet, and in the past typically caused 10-15 cases per month. Illnesses that occurred after July 26, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicate that cantaloupes grown in southwestern Indiana are a likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella Typhimurium infections. Investigations are ongoing to identify the source of contaminated cantaloupes. In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Eighteen (75%) of 24 ill persons interviewed reported consuming cantaloupe in the week before their illness began. The Kentucky Division of Laboratory Services has isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium from two cantaloupes collected from a retail location in Kentucky., Preliminary results of antibiotic susceptibility testing indicate that this strain of Salmonella is susceptible to commonly prescribed antibiotics. There is no connection between this Salmonella outbreak and the 2011 multistate outbreak of listeriosis linked to whole cantaloupes from Jensen Farms, Colorado., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. Investigations are ongoing to determine if other types of melons may be linked to illness. FDA is continuing to work closely with CDC and state partners during this investigation. CDC will update the public on the progress of this investigation as information becomes available., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '71130eb226853c4ffeeb3cc0a06a8e6b4500d2f3e129193bf250b7b008576da1', 'headline': 'CDC - Salmonella Enteritidis Infections Linked to Ground Beef - Salmonella', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 13, 32, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/enteritidis-07-12/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted September 13, 2012 04:45 PM ET, , This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., , , CDC collaborated with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections linked to ground beef produced on May 25, 2012 by Cargill Meat Solutions at a single production facility (EST. 9400). Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections.  Since the PFGE pattern of the outbreak strain is typically associated with 8 to 12 cases per month, Multiple-Locus Variable-number tandem repeat Analysis (MLVA) was used in addition to PFGE to define the outbreak strain., A total of 46 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis were reported from 9 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state was as follows: Maine (2), Massachusetts (3), New Hampshire (3), New York (20), North Carolina (1), Rhode Island (3), Vermont (11), Virginia (2), and West Virginia (1)., Among 46 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from June 6, 2012 to July 27, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from 3 years to 101 years, with a median age of 50 years; 54% were female. Among 36 persons with available information, 12 (33%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This particular outbreak appears to be over. While the use-by date of the recalled ground beef has passed, consumers might still have recalled ground beef in their homes if the ground beef was frozen at home. Consumers should check freezers for recalled ground beef products and should not eat them., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked this outbreak to ground beef produced by Cargill Meat Solutions at a single production facility (EST. 9400)., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. By July 20, 2012, 26 (90%) of 29 ill persons interviewed reported consuming ground beef in the week before their illness began. This proportion is significantly higher when compared with results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy persons, in which 69% of persons interviewed during the month of June reported consuming ground beef in the 7 days before they were interviewed. Among the 26 ill persons who reported consuming ground beef, 17 (65%) reported purchasing ground beef from various locations of the same grocery store chain.External Among the 14 ill persons who remembered the type of ground beef, 9 (64%) recalled purchasing 85% lean ground beef., Laboratory testing conducted by state public health laboratories isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis from 2 unlabeled packages of leftover ground beef reportedly purchased from this grocery store chain and collected from 2 separate case-patient homes in New York and Vermont. Results of antibiotic susceptibility testing indicate that this strain of Salmonella is susceptible to commonly prescribed antibiotics., Working in conjunction with the CDC, Vermont Department of Health, New York State Department of Health, and New York State Department of Agriculture &amp; Markets, FSIS was able to link illnesses in five case-patients to ground beef products produced at a single Cargill Meat Solutions establishment (EST. 9400) based on epidemiologic and traceback investigations, as well as in-store reviews., On July 22, 2012, Cargill Meat Solutions recalled 29,339 pounds of fresh ground beef productsExternal. The products subject to recall bear the establishment number “EST. 9400” inside the USDA mark of inspection. While the use-by date has passed and these products are no longer available for retail sale, FSIS and the company are concerned that some product may be frozen in consumers’ freezers. Consumers should not eat the recalled ground beef, and retailers and food service establishments should not serve it., Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella infections, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., , , A total of 46 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis were reported from 9 states. Since the last update, 6 new cases were reported from 4 states: Maine (1), New Hampshire (1), New York (2), North Carolina (1), and Rhode Island (1)., Among 46 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from June 6, 2012 to July 27, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from 3 years to 101 years, with a median age of 50 years; 54% were female. Among 36 persons with available information, 12 (33%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths were reported., A total of 40 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis have been reported from 8 states. The 7 new cases are from 4 states: New York (4), Rhode Island (1), Vermont (1), and West Virginia (1)., Among 40 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from June 6, 2012 to July 9, 2012. Ill persons range in age from 3 years to 101 years, with a median age of 50 years; 53% are female. Among 33 persons with available information, 11 (33%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after July 10, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections. Public health investigators are using DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They are using data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., A total of 33 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis have been reported from 7 states. The number of ill people identified in each state with the outbreak strain is as follows: Maine (1), Massachusetts (3), New Hampshire (2), New York (14), Rhode Island (1), Virginia (2), and Vermont (10)., Among 33 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from June 6, 2012 to June 26, 2012. Ill persons range in age from 12 years to 101 years, with a median age of 55 years; 55% are female. Among 30 persons with available information, 11 (37%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Since this PFGE pattern is typically associated with 8 to 12 cases per month, Multiple-Locus Variable-number tandem repeat Analysis (MLVA) is being used in addition to PFGE to define the outbreak strain. Illnesses that occurred after June 29, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. For more details, please see Salmonella Outbreak Investigations:Timeline for Reporting Cases., Epidemiologic and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicate that ground beef is the likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections. In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures during the week before becoming ill. Twenty-six (90%) of 29 ill persons interviewed reported consuming ground beef in the week before their illness began. This proportion is significantly higher when compared with results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy persons, in which 69% of persons interviewed during the month of June reported consuming ground beef in the 7 days before they were interviewed. Among the 26 ill persons who reported consuming ground beef, 17 (65%) reported purchasing ground beef from various locations of the same grocery store chainExternal. Among the 14 ill persons who remembered the type of ground beef, 9 (64%) recalled purchasing 85% lean ground beef., Laboratory testing conducted by state public health laboratories isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis from 2 unlabeled packages of leftover ground beef reportedly purchased from this grocery store chain and collected from 2 separate case-patient homes in New York and Vermont. Preliminary results of antibiotic susceptibility testing indicate that this strain of Salmonella is susceptible to commonly prescribed antibiotics., Working in conjunction with the CDC, Vermont Department of Health, New York State Department of Health, and New York State Department of Agriculture &amp; Markets, FSIS was able to link illnesses in five case-patients to ground beef products produced at a single Cargill Meat Solutions establishment (EST. 9400) based on epidemiologic and traceback investigations, as well as in-store reviews., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill persons and to interview ill persons about foods eaten before becoming ill. FSIS is continuing to work closely with CDC and state partners during this investigation. CDC will update the public on the progress of this investigation as information becomes available., On July 22, 2012, Cargill Meat Solutions recalled 29,339 pounds of fresh ground beef productsExternal. The products subject to recall bear the establishment number “EST. 9400” inside the USDA mark of inspection. While the use-by date has passed and these products are no longer available for retail sale, FSIS and the company are concerned that some product may be frozen in consumers’ freezers., It is important for consumers to note that the recalled products were repackaged into consumer-size packages and sold under different retail brand names and may not bear “EST. 9400” on the packaging, so consumers were advised to visit the FSIS site for a list of stores that sold these meat products. More information on recalled products can be found at: FSIS Recalls: Current Recalls &amp; AlertsExternal., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '839b85538719bf217acf814e81f9361aef4ceab51c35c0dd3339b0842fdab0ad', 'headline': 'CDC - Salmonella Hadar Infections Linked to Live Poultry - Salmonella', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 13, 45, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/hadar-live-poultry-07-12/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted October 12, 2012 10:15 AM ET, , This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., , A total of 46 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Hadar were reported from 11 states., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback findings linked this outbreak of human Salmonella infections to contact with live poultry from Hatchery B in Idaho., , CDC collaborated with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, National Poultry Improvement Plan, and Veterinary Services to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella Hadar infections linked to chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry from Hatchery B in Idaho. The mail-order hatchery was not named at the request of state authorities. Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak., A total of 46 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Hadar were reported from 11 states: Arizona (2), California (2), Colorado (5), Idaho (6), Illinois (4), Oregon (6), Tennessee (2), Texas (1), Utah (6), Washington (10), and Wyoming (2)., Among 45 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from March 6, 2012 to August 12, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 78 years, with a median age of 33 years. Fifty percent of ill persons were female. Among 36 persons with available information, 13 (36%) reported being hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella infections and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., It is important to remember that contact with live poultry, including baby or adult birds, can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. It is important for mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others that sell or display chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry to provide health-related information Cdc-pdf[PDF – 1 page] to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry. Additional recommendations are available., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked this outbreak to chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry from Hatchery B in Idaho. The mail-order hatchery was not named at the request of state authorities., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Twenty-eight (90%) of 31 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, ducklings, turkeys) before becoming ill. The median time from acquiring baby poultry and illness onset was 23 days, with a range of 4 to 70 days. Live poultry were purchased from agricultural feed stores or direct from the mail-order hatchery. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets. Twenty-three (88%) of 26 ill persons with available purchase information reported purchasing live poultry from various locations of 19 different agricultural feed store companies in multiple states. Because the potential for Salmonella infection exists wherever these live poultry are sold, and not just at one feed store, CDC’s recommendations apply wherever these poultry are sold., Findings of multiple traceback investigations of live poultry from homes of ill persons have identified Hatchery B in Idaho as the source of chicks and other live poultry. The owners of the mail-order hatchery are working closely with public health and agriculture officials to address the outbreak. Hatchery B is a participant in the USDA National Poultry Improvement Plan program. This program is intended to eliminate certain strains of Salmonella that cause illness in poultry breeding flocks and hatcheries, but does not certify that these poultry are free from other strains of Salmonella that may cause human illness., Live poultry infected with Salmonella can appear healthy and clean, but still shed Salmonella germs that can make people sick. Because live poultry from Hatchery B may live in backyard flocks for long periods of time, it is important to be aware of the risk of Salmonella infection from these birds, as well as all live poultry, and to follow the Advice to Consumers., , A total of 46 persons infected with outbreak strain of Salmonella Hadar were reported from 11 states. Since the last update, nine new cases were reported from 7 states: California (1), Colorado (2), Idaho (1), Illinois (2), Oregon (1), Utah (1), and Washington (1)., Among 45 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from March 6, 2012 to August 12, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 78 years, with a median age of 33 years. Thirty percent of ill persons were children 10 years of age or younger. Fifty percent of ill persons were female. Among 36 persons with available information, 13 (36%) reported being hospitalized, and no deaths were reported., CDC is collaborating with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, National Poultry Improvement Plan, and Veterinary Services to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella Hadar infections linked to chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry from Hatchery B in Idaho. The mail-order hatchery has not been named at the request of state authorities. Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of these outbreaks. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak., These outbreaks can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after June 14, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases for more details., Contact with live poultry, including baby or adult birds, can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. Additional recommendations are available., Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or display chicks, ducklings and other live poultry should provide health-related information Adobe PDF file Cdc-pdf[PDF – 1 page] to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'cedda2f5d38073221e794f3c125bf083c8d3fab6523f1694a1426d8c2f5d5d57', 'headline': 'CDC - Salmonella Montevideo Infections Linked to Live Poultry - Salmonella', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 13, 38, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/montevideo-06-12/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted October 12, 2012 1:30 PM ET, , This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., , A total of 93 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Montevideo were reported from 23 states and Puerto Rico., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback findings linked this outbreak of human Salmonella infections to contact with chicks, ducklings, and other live baby poultry from Estes Hatchery in Springfield, Missouri., , CDC collaborated with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, National Poultry Improvement Plan, and Veterinary Services to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella Montevideo infections linked to chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry from Estes Hatchery in Springfield, Missouri. Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak., A total of 93 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Montevideo were reported from 23 states and Puerto Rico: Alaska (1), California (4), Colorado (1), Florida (1), Georgia (1), Illinois (3), Indiana (10), Iowa (2), Kansas (15), Kentucky (2), Massachusetts (2), Missouri (28), Nebraska (8), Nevada (1), New York (1), North Carolina (1), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (5), South Dakota (1), Texas (1), Vermont (1), West Virginia (1), Wyoming (1), and Puerto Rico (1)., Among 86 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from February 28, 2012 to September 15, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 83 years, with a median age of 20 years. Thirty-eight percent of ill persons were children 10 years of age or younger. Forty-eight percent of ill persons were female. Among 61 persons with available information, 21 (34%) reported being hospitalized. One death was reported in Missouri, but Salmonella infection was not considered a contributing factor in this person’s death., This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is still an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., It is important to remember that contact with live poultry, including baby or adult birds, can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. It is important for mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others that sell or display chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry to provide health-related information Cdc-pdf[PDF – 1 page] to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry. Additional recommendations are available., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked this outbreak to chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry from Estes Hatchery in Springfield, Missouri., During interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Fifty (82%) of 61 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens, ducks, ducklings, turkeys) before becoming ill. The median time from acquiring baby poultry and illness onset was 14 days, with a range of 3 to 106 days. Thirty-five (88%) of 40 ill persons with available purchase information reported buying live baby poultry from various locations of 15 different agricultural feed store companies in multiple states. Additionally, 5 (13%) reported purchasing baby poultry directly from mail-order hatcheries. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat or to keep as pets., Findings of multiple traceback investigations of live baby poultry from homes of ill persons have identified Estes Hatchery in Springfield, Missouri as the source of chicks and ducklings. The owners of the mail-order hatchery cooperated with public health and agriculture officials throughout the investigation. Estes Hatchery is a participant in the USDA National Poultry Improvement Plan program. This program is intended to eliminate certain strains of Salmonella that cause illness in poultry breeding flocks and hatcheries, but does not certify that these poultry are free from other strains of Salmonella that may cause human illness., Live poultry infected with Salmonella can appear healthy and clean but still shed Salmonella germs that can make people sick. Because live poultry from Estes Hatchery may live in backyard flocks for long periods of time, it is important to be aware of the risk of Salmonella infection from these birds, as well as all live poultry, and to follow the Advice to Consumers., , , A total of 93 persons infected with outbreak strain of Salmonella Montevideo were reported from 23 states and Puerto Rico. Since the last update, 17 new cases were reported from 8 states and Puerto Rico: California (2), Illinois (1), Indiana (1), Kansas (5), Kentucky (1), Missouri (4), Oklahoma (1), West Virginia (1), and Puerto Rico (1)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 28, 2012 and September 15, 2012. Infected individuals ranged in age from less than 1 year to 83 years, with a median age of 20 years. Thirty-eight percent of ill persons were 10 years of age or younger. Forty-eight percent of ill persons were female. Among 61 ill persons with available information, 21 (34%) were hospitalized. One death was reported in Missouri, but Salmonella infection was not considered a contributing factor in this person’s death., A total of 76 persons infected with outbreak strain of Salmonella Montevideo have been reported from 22 states. The 10 new cases are from seven states: Florida (1), Illinois (1), Indiana (1), Massachusetts (1), Missouri (2), Nebraska (3), and Texas (1)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 28, 2012 and July 15, 2012. Infected individuals range in age from less than 1 year to 83 years, and 37% of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Forty-nine percent of ill persons are female. Among 54 ill persons with available information, 17 (31%) have been hospitalized. One death was reported in Missouri, but Salmonella infection was not considered a contributing factor in this person’s death., During interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Forty-six (85%) of 54 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, chickens, ducks, ducklings, turkeys) before becoming ill. Forty (93%) of 43 ill persons with available purchase information reported buying live baby poultry from various locations of 16 different agricultural feed store companies in multiple states. Additionally, 5 (12%) reported purchasing baby poultry directly from mail-order hatcheries. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets., Findings of multiple traceback investigations of live baby poultry from homes of ill persons have identified Estes Hatchery in Springfield, Missouri as the source of chicks and ducklings. The owners of the mail-order hatchery are cooperating with public health and agriculture officials. Estes Hatchery is a participant in the USDA-National Poultry Improvement Plan, which is a program to eliminate Salmonella Pullorum (Salmonella enterica serotype Pullorum) and Salmonella typhoid (Salmonella enterica serotype Gallinarum) from breeder flocks but does not certify freedom from other strains of Salmonella in birds., Illnesses that occurred after July 3, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., CDC is collaborating with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, National Poultry Improvement Plan, and Veterinary Services to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella Montevideo infections linked to chicks and ducklings from Estes Hatchery in Springfield, Missouri. Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak., This outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after May 29, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases for more details., Contact with live poultry can be a source of human Salmonella infections. You should always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. Additional recommendations are available., Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or display chicks, ducklings and other live poultry should provide health-related information Cdc-pdf[PDF – 1 page] to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '8ec50a6e0abd9f58bbba8ea93edb56f0587b121e938674c70a46c8732a8f59e0', 'headline': 'CDC - Salmonella Infections Linked to Live Poultry - Salmonella', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 17, 45, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/live-poultry-05-12/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted October 26, 2012 3:30 PM ET, , Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., , A total of 195 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, and Salmonella Lille were reported from 27 states., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback findings linked this outbreak of human Salmonella infections to contact with live poultry from Mt. Healthy Hatchery in Ohio., , CDC collaborated with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, National Poultry Improvement Plan, and Veterinary Services to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, and Salmonella Lille infections linked to chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry from Mt. Healthy Hatchery in Ohio. Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak., A total of 195 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, and Salmonella Lille were reported from 27 states: Alabama (4), Arizona (1), Arkansas (1), Delaware (1), Georgia (5), Illinois (4), Indiana (6), Kansas (1), Kentucky (11), Louisiana (1), Maryland (5), Maine (4), Massachusetts (7), Michigan (2), North Carolina (15), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (5), New York (23), Ohio (42), Pennsylvania (16), Rhode Island (2), South Carolina (2), Tennessee (11), Texas (2), Virginia (9), Vermont (3), and West Virginia (11)., Among 191 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from March 1, 2012 to September 24, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 100 years, with a median age of 32 years. Fifty-four percent of ill persons were female. Among 107 persons with available information, 36 (34%) reported being hospitalized. Two deaths were reported, one in New York and one in Maryland, but it is unclear whether Salmonella infection contributed to either of these deaths., This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, it is important to remember that contact with live poultry, including baby or adult birds, can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children., It is important for mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others that sell or display chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry to provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry. Additional recommendations are available., Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about  infections and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked this outbreak to chicks, ducklings, and other live poultry from Mt. Healthy Hatchery in Ohio., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Seventy-nine (79%) of 100 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live poultry (e.g., chicks, ducklings, turkeys) before becoming ill. The median time from acquiring baby poultry and illness onset was 19 days, with a range of 3 to 90 days. Live poultry were purchased from agricultural feed stores or direct from the mail-order hatchery. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets. Forty-seven (87%) of 54 ill persons with available purchase information reported buying chicks and ducklings that were sourced from a single mail-order hatchery in Ohio, Mt. Healthy Hatchery., Findings of multiple traceback investigations of live poultry from homes of ill persons have identified Mt. Healthy Hatchery in Ohio as the source of chicks and other live poultry. The owners of the mail-order hatchery are working closely with public health and agriculture officials to address the outbreak. Mt. Healthy Hatchery is a participant in the USDA National Poultry Improvement Plan program. This program is intended to eliminate certain strains of Salmonella that cause illness in poultry breeding flocks and hatcheries, but it does not certify that these poultry are free from other strains of Salmonella that may cause human illness., Live poultry infected with Salmonella can appear healthy and clean but still shed Salmonella germs that can make people sick. Because live poultry from Mt. Healthy Hatchery may live in backyard flocks for long periods of time, it is important to be aware of the risk of Salmonella infection from these birds, as well as all live poultry, and to follow the Advice to Consumers., , , A total of 195 persons infected with outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, and Salmonella Lille were reported from 27 states. Since the last update, 32 new cases were reported from 13 states: Arkansas (1), Illinois (1), Indiana (3), Kentucky (6), Maryland (2), Massachusetts (4), New Jersey (4), New York (2), Ohio (3), Pennsylvania (3), Rhode Island (1), Vermont (1), and West Virginia (1)., Among 191 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from March 1, 2012 to September 24, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 100 years, with a median age of 32 years. Thirty-three percent of ill persons were children 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-four percent of ill persons were female. Among 107 persons with available information, 34 (34%) reported being hospitalized. Two deaths were reported, one in New York and one in Maryland, but it is unclear whether Salmonella infection contributed to either of these deaths., A total of 163 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, and Salmonella Lille have been reported from 26 states. The 20 new cases are from 10 states: Illinois (2), Massachusetts (1), Maryland (2), New York (5), North Carolina (1), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (2), South Carolina (1), Vermont (1), and West Virginia (3)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 1, 2012 and July 31, 2012. Infected individuals range in age from less than one year to 100 years, and 34% of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-three percent of ill persons are female. Among 100 ill persons with available information, 33 (33%) have been hospitalized. Two deaths have been reported, one in New York and one in Maryland, but it is unclear whether Salmonella infection contributed to either of these deaths., During interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Seventy-five (81%) of 93 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live chicks and ducklings before becoming ill. Forty-eight (89%) of 54 ill persons with available purchase information reported buying chicks and ducklings that were sourced from a single mail-order hatchery in Ohio, Mt. Healthy Hatchery. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets., Illnesses that occurred after July 23, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., A total of 144 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, and Salmonella Lille have been reported from 26 states. The 21 new cases are from nine states: Arizona (1), Maine (1), Massachusetts (1), Michigan (1), North Carolina (2), Ohio (7), Pennsylvania (1), Tennessee (3), and Virginia (4)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 1, 2012 and June 22, 2012. Infected individuals range in age from less than one year to 100 years, and 36% of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-five percent of ill persons are female. Among 90 ill persons with available information, 32 (36%) have been hospitalized. One death has been reported in New York, but it is unclear whether infection contributed to the death., During interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Seventy (85%) of 82 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live chicks and ducklings before becoming ill. Fifty-three (100%) of 53 ill persons with available purchase information reported buying chicks and ducklings that were sourced from a single mail-order hatchery in Ohio, Mt. Healthy Hatchery. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets., Illnesses that occurred after June 17, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., A total of 123 persons infected with outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, and Salmonella Lille have been reported from 25 states. The 30 new cases are from 14 states: Alabama (1), Delaware (1), Georgia (2), Indiana (1), Kansas (1), Kentucky (1), Maine (1), New York (3), North Carolina (3), Ohio (4), Pennsylvania (1), Tennessee (4), Texas (1), and West Virginia (6)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 1, 2012 and May 22, 2012. Infected individuals range in age from less than one year to 100 years, and 36% of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-two percent of ill persons are female. Among 68 ill persons with available information, 26 (38%) have been hospitalized. One death has been reported in New York, but it is unclear whether infection contributed to the death., During interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Fifty-seven (86%) of 66 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live chicks and ducklings before becoming ill. Forty-two (100%) of 42 ill persons with available purchase information reported buying chicks and ducklings that were sourced from a single mail-order hatchery in Ohio, Mt. Healthy Hatchery. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets., Illnesses that occurred after May 14, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., CDC is collaborating with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA), Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, National Poultry Improvement Plan (NPIP) and Veterinary Services to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella infections linked to chicks and ducklings from a single mail-order hatchery in Ohio. Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of these outbreaks. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak., These outbreaks can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after May 6, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases for more details., Contact with live poultry can be a source of human Salmonella infections. You should always wash hands thoroughly with soap and water right after touching live poultry or anything in the area where they live and roam. Adults should supervise hand washing for young children. Additional recommendations are available., Mail-order hatcheries, agricultural feed stores, and others who sell or display chicks, ducklings and other live poultry should provide health-related information to owners and potential purchasers of these birds prior to the point of purchase. This should include information about the risk of acquiring a Salmonella infection from contact with live poultry., As of May 25, 2012, a total of 93 persons infected with outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, and Salmonella Lille have been reported from 23 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (3), Georgia (3), Illinois (1), Indiana (2), Kentucky (4), Louisiana (1), Massachusetts (1), Maryland (1), Maine (2), Michigan (1), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (1), North Carolina (9), New York (13), Ohio (26), Pennsylvania (9), Rhode Island (1), South Carolina (1), Tennessee (4), Texas (1), Virginia (6), Vermont (1), and West Virginia (1)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between March 1, 2012 and May 19, 2012. Infected individuals range in age from less than one year old to 100 years old, and 37% of ill persons are 10 years of age or younger. Fifty-one percent of ill persons are female. Among 36 ill persons with available information, 18 (50%) have been hospitalized. One death possibly related to this outbreak is under investigation., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Thirty-seven (90%) of 41 ill persons interviewed reported contact with live chicks and ducklings before becoming ill. Thirty-two (100%) of 32 ill persons with available vendor information reported purchasing chicks and ducklings. Ill persons reported purchasing live poultry for backyard flocks to produce eggs or meat, or to keep as pets., State health departments have tested chick and duckling samples collected from ill persons’ homes. Four chick and duckling samples from different homes in Ohio and New York yielded the outbreak strains of Salmonella Infantis, Salmonella Newport, and Salmonella Lille., Findings of multiple traceback investigations of live chicks and ducklings from homes of ill persons have identified a single mail-order hatchery in Ohio as the source of these chicks and ducklings. This is the same mail-order hatchery that was associated with the 2011 outbreak of Salmonella Altona and Salmonella Johannesburg infections. In May 2012, veterinarians from the Ohio Department of Agriculture inspected the mail-order hatchery and made recommendations for improvement., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '3ca9b642e49790d2e9b455530ba8f442b949f49c93c3d8f7cfb009965814f964', 'headline': 'CDC - Salmonella Infantis Infections Linked to Dry Dog Food - Salmonella', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 13, 19, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/dog-food-05-12/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted July 18, 2012 6:00 PM ET, , Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., , , CDC collaborated with public health and agriculture officials in multiple states, the Public Health Agency of Canada, and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate an outbreak of human Salmonella Infantis infections. Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. The outbreak strain is rare and typically 0-3 isolates are reported per month., Multiple brands of dry dog food produced by Diamond Pet Foods at a single production facility in Gaston, South Carolina were linked to human illnesses., A total of 49 cases (47 cases in 20 states, and two cases in CanadaExternal) of human infections with the outbreak strain were reported. The number of ill persons identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (2), Arkansas (2), California (3), Connecticut (2), Georgia (2), Illinois (4), Indiana (1), Kentucky (1), Michigan (2), Minnesota (1), Missouri (3), New Jersey (2), New York (5), North Carolina (5), Ohio (3), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (3), South Carolina (2), Texas (1), and Virginia (2). The median patient age was 28 years (range: less than 1 year–82 years); 57% were female. Among 25 persons for whom information was available, the majority of illnesses began between January 4 and June 26, 2012. Among the 24 patients with available information, 10 (42%) were hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., The numbers of new cases have declined substantially since the peak in April–May, but illnesses are still being reported among people who came into contact with the recalled product after the recall. The outbreak is expected to continue at a low level for the next several months, because the expected shelf life of dry pet food is generally one year from the date of manufacture, and consumers who are unaware that they have recalled pet foods in their homes may continue to come into contact with these products. Consumers should check their homes for recalled pet food and discard them., Epidemiologic and laboratory investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked this outbreak to contaminated dry dog food produced by Diamond Pet Foods at a single production facility in Gaston, South Carolina., On April 2, 2012, the Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development detected Salmonella bacteria in an unopened bag of Diamond brand dry dog food collected during routine retail testing. Public health investigators used PulseNet, a national molecular subtyping network, to identify recent human infections with the same strain of Salmonella found in the dog food sample., In interviews, 22 (79%) of 28 ill persons interviewed reported contact with a dog in the week before becoming ill. Of 17 ill persons who could recall the type of dog food with which they had contact, 11 (65%) identified dry dog food produced by Diamond Pet Foods that may have been produced at a single facility in South Carolina., As part of this outbreak investigation, Ohio public health and agriculture officials collected and tested dry dog food produced by Diamond Pet Foods. The outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis was isolated from an opened bag of Diamond Brand dry dog food collected from the home of an ill person, and an unopened bag of the product was collected from a retail store. An inspection sample from the South Carolina production facility and several retail samples of dry dog food collected by FDA also yielded Salmonella. FDA’s list of observations found during their inspection is available.Cdc-pdfExternal In addition to the outbreak strain with the initial PGFE pattern, a Salmonella Infantis strain with a second PFGE pattern was isolated. Sixteen human cases were identified with the second PFGE pattern. Salmonella bacteria with the second pattern was isolated from a dog food sample collected from the home of an ill person in Canada, who was infected with a non-outbreak strain of Salmonella., The results of product testing by multiple agencies and production codes provided by ill persons led to multiple recalls by Diamond Pet Foods and several other companies with products manufactured at the implicated production facility in South Carolina. The recalls included 17 brands representing &gt;30,000 tons of dry dog and cat food produced at the facility. More information on the investigation and recalls  is available at FDA Investigation of Multistate Outbreak of Human Infections Linked to Dry Pet FoodExternal., Pet illnesses associated with recalled products were reported to FDA’s Pet Food Complaint SystemExternal. The outbreak strain of Salmonella was isolated from one ill dog and one asymptomatic dog by the Ohio Department of Agriculture; both dogs consumed recalled products., This is the second documented outbreak of human salmonellosis linked to dry pet food in the United States. People should be aware that dry pet food may be contaminated with Salmonella bacteria. Additional advice for consumers is available here. Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella infections, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., , , A total of 49 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis have been reported. Forty-seven ill persons have been reported from 20 states; 2 ill persons have been reported from CanadaExternal. The 27 new cases, including 16 cases with a second PFGE pattern associated with this outbreak, are from: Arkansas (2), California (2), Connecticut (1), Georgia (2), Illinois (3), Indiana (1), Kentucky (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), New Jersey (1), New York (4), North Carolina (2), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (1), South Carolina (1), Texas (1), and Virginia (1). Among persons for whom information is available, the majority of illnesses began between January 4 and June 26, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 82 years old and the median age is 28 years. Fifty-seven percent of patients are female. Among the 24 patients with available information, 10 (42%) were hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., An inspection sample from the South Carolina production facility and several retail samples of dry dog food collected by FDA yielded Salmonella. FDA’s list of observations found during their inspection is available Cdc-pdf[PDF – 2 pages]External. In addition to the outbreak strain with the initial PGFE pattern, a Salmonella Infantis strain with a second PFGE pattern was isolated. Sixteen human cases were identified with this second PFGE pattern. A Salmonella strain with the second PFGE pattern was isolated from a dog food sample collected from the home of an ill person in Canada, who was infected with a non-outbreak strain of Salmonella., A total of 22 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis have been reported. Twenty ill persons have been reported from 13 states. The five new cases are from: Alabama (1), California (1), Illinois (1), New York (1), and South Carolina (1). Additionally, two ill persons have been reported from CanadaExternal., Among persons for whom information is available, illnesses began between October 2011 and May 11, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than one year old to 82 years old and the median age is 46.5 years. Sixty-eight percent of patients are female. Among the 17 patients with available information, 6 (35%) were hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 11, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., A total of 15 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis have been reported from 9 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (1), Connecticut (1), Michigan (1), Missouri (3), North Carolina (3), New Jersey (1), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (2), and Virginia (1). One new ill person was reported from Pennsylvania. Additionally, one ill person has been reported from CanadaExternal., Among persons for whom information is available, illnesses began between October 8, 2011 and April 16, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than one year old to 82 years old and the median age is 47 years. Seventy-three percent of patients are female. Among the 10 patients with available information, 5 (50%) were hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after April 13, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., CDC is collaborating with public health and agriculture officials in multiple states and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate an ongoing multistate outbreak of human Salmonella Infantis infections. Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. The outbreak strain is rare and typically 0-3 isolates are reported per month., Multiple brands of dry pet food produced by Diamond Pet Foods at a single manufacturing facility in South Carolina have been linked to some of the human Salmonella infections. People who think they might have become ill after contact with dry pet food or with an animal that has eaten dry pet food should consult their health care providers., A total of 14 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis have been reported from 9 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (1), Connecticut (1), Michigan (1), Missouri (3), North Carolina (3), New Jersey (1), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (1), and Virginia (1)., Among persons for whom information is available, illnesses began between October 8, 2011 and April 22, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than one year old to 82 years old and the median age is 48 years. Seventy-seven percent of patients are female. Among the 9 patients with available information, 5 (56%) were hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after April 1, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases for more details., On April 2, 2012, the Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development detected Salmonella in an unopened bag of Diamond Naturals Lamb Meal &amp; Rice dry dog food, which had been collected March 14, 2012, during routine retail testing of dry pet food. Public health investigators used PulseNet to identify recent cases of human illness with a PFGE pattern indistinguishable from Salmonella Infantis which was isolated from the unopened bag of dry dog food produced by Diamond Pet Foods. In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Seven of 10 (70%) ill persons interviewed reported contact with a dog in the week before becoming ill. Of 5 ill persons who could recall the type of dog food with which they had contact, 4 (80%) identified dry dog food produced by Diamond Pet Foods that may have been produced at a single facility in South Carolina., As part of this outbreak investigation, Ohio public health and agriculture officials collected and tested dry dog food produced by Diamond Pet Foods. The outbreak strain of Salmonella Infantis was isolated from an opened bag of Diamond Brand Chicken Soup for the Pet Lover’s Soul Adult Light Formula dry dog food collected from the home of an ill person, and an unopened bag of the product collected from a retail store. A sample of Diamond Puppy Formula dry dog food collected by FDA during an inspection at the South Carolina production facility has also yielded Salmonella., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and regulatory investigations are ongoing to identify if other brands of dry dog food produced at this facility may be linked to human illnesses. Diamond Pet Foods is cooperating with public health and agricultural investigators in this ongoing investigation., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'eed90dddaf7f86bca151e47d48eaccb7a164ea247a6679217c0a1b01c99f59cd', 'headline': 'CDC - Salmonella Bareilly and Nchanga Infections Associated with a Raw Scraped Ground Tuna Product - Salmonella', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 2, 4, 3, 49, 26, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/bareilly-04-12/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted July 26, 2012 5:30 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., , , CDC collaborated with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Bareilly and Salmonella Nchanga infections associated with an imported frozen raw yellowfin tuna product, known as Nakaochi Scrape, from Moon Marine USA Corporation. Salmonella Bareilly and Salmonella Nchanga are unusual serotypes of Salmonella in the United States. Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections.  , A total of 425 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Bareilly or Salmonella Nchanga were reported from 28 states and the District of Columbia. Since the last update, 35 new cases were reported from 12 states: Alabama (1), California (1), Georgia (2), Illinois (1), New Hampshire (2), New Jersey (5), New York (4), Pennsylvania (3), South Carolina (1), Texas (1), Virginia (11), and Wisconsin (3)., Four hundred and ten persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly were reported from 28 states and the District of Columbia. The number of ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (5), Arkansas (1), California (8), Colorado (1), Connecticut (11), District of Columbia (3), Florida (1), Georgia (20), Illinois (30) Indiana (1), Kansas (1), Louisiana (6), Massachusetts (36), Maryland (39), Missouri (4), Mississippi (2), Nebraska (2), New Hampshire (2), New Jersey (39), New York (62), North Carolina (12), Pennsylvania (37), Rhode Island (6), South Carolina (5), Tennessee (4), Texas (14), Virginia (33), Vermont (1), and Wisconsin (24)., Fifteen persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Nchanga were reported from 7 states. The number of ill persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Nchanga identified in each state was as follows: Georgia (2), Maryland (1), New Jersey (3), New York (6), Texas (1), Virginia (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Among 425 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from January 1 to July 7, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 30 years; 60% of patients were female. Among 326 persons with available information, 55 (17%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, additional cases may be reported over the next several months since some food establishments may be unaware that they received recalled product and continue to serve this frozen raw yellowfin tuna product, which has a long shelf-life., Collaborative investigation efforts of state, local, and federal public health agencies linked this outbreak to contaminated frozen raw yellowfin tuna product, known as Nakaochi Scrape, from Moon Marine USA Corporation. Nakaochi Scrape is tuna backmeat that is scraped from the bones of tuna and may be used in sushi, sashimi, ceviche, and similar dishes., Interviews of ill persons conducted by states in March and April, 2012 suggested consumption of sushi made with raw tuna as a source of these infections. By April 11, 2012, 43 (81%) of 53 ill persons interviewed with a detailed questionnaire reported eating sushi. This proportion was significantly higher when compared with results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy persons in which 5% reported eating “sushi, sashimi, or ceviche made with raw fish or shellfish” in the 7 days before they were interviewed. Of the 43 ill persons reporting eating sushi, 39 (91%) reported eating a sushi item containing tuna, and 36 (84%) reported eating a sushi item containing “spicy tuna.”, Several methods were used to evaluate the association between tuna and illness in this outbreak. On March 29, 2012, a study was launched to estimate the frequency of consumption of tuna and “spicy tuna” among all sushi eaters. Investigators assembled a comparison group from 1) diners who ate at one of the cluster restaurants or grocery stores or 2) a restaurant where a single ill person, who was judged to have a reliable memory, recalled consuming sushi only once in the week before illness. Records were collected on sushi orders that were placed at the same time of day (lunch or dinner) and as close to the date when the ill person ate at the restaurant., On April 9, 2012, preliminary results of the comparison study using information available from 4 illness clusters at restaurants or grocery stores showed that the proportion of sushi orders that contained tuna as an ingredient averaged 61% (ranging from 43% to 71%). The proportion of sushi orders that contained “spicy tuna” as an ingredient averaged 37% (ranging from 29% to 53%). These data suggested there was an association between illness and consumption of sushi made with tuna, and specifically “spicy tuna.”, State and local public health and regulatory officials worked with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to conduct a traceback investigation of tuna. Investigators visited restaurants and grocery stores associated with ill persons and collected information about the ingredients used in “spicy tuna” recipes. Raw tuna was found to be a common ingredient used to make “spicy tuna”\x9d among all 5 restaurant or grocery store clusters for which ingredient information was available. FDA selected 4 of the clusters, which were located in Connecticut, Rhode Island, Texas, and Wisconsin, as the focus of the initial traceback investigation. All 4 establishments received the same imported frozen raw Nakaochi Scrape tuna product from a single tuna processing facility in India, Moon Fishery Pvt Ltd., On April 13, 2012, Moon Marine USA Corporation (also known as MMI) of Cupertino, California voluntarily recalledExternal 58,828 pounds of a frozen raw yellowfin tuna product, labeled as Nakaochi Scrape AA or AAA. Nakaochi Scrape is tuna backmeat, which is specifically scraped off from the bones, and looks like a ground product., A Seafood HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point) inspection was conducted by FDA April 19–24, 2012 at the Moon Fishery Pvt Ltd. processing facility in Aroor, India. Based on the initial tour of the facility, inspectors identified several seafood HACCP deficiencies, such as lack of controls for histamine at receipt of product, lack of controls for Clostridium botulinum at storage, and several significant sanitation observations of concern. , During the investigation, samples of the implicated product were collected for laboratory testing. On April 24, 2012, the Wisconsin Department of Health Services announced that the Department of Agriculture Trade and Consumer Protection laboratory had found Salmonella Bareilly contamination in recalled yellowfin tuna and in a spicy tuna roll made with the recalled tuna., On April 26, 2012, FDA announced finding the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly from two samples taken from unopened packages of recalled Nakaochi Scrape tuna from Moon Marine USA Corporation. One of the samples also yielded another type of Salmonella with a PFGE pattern indistinguishable from a cluster of Salmonella Nchanga infections. Based on an epidemiological link and results of laboratory testing, CDC combined the Salmonella Bareilly investigation with an ongoing Salmonella Nchanga investigation, and the 2 associated PFGE patterns were grouped together as the “outbreak strains.”, By May 17, 2012, laboratory testing conducted by state public health laboratories in Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and Wisconsin isolated Salmonella from 53 (96%) of 55 samples taken from intact packages of frozen yellowfin tuna scrape from Moon Marine USA Corporation or from sushi prepared with the implicated scrape tuna product. Of the 41 Salmonella isolates for which PFGE results are available, 36 samples yielded the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly, and 12 samples yielded the outbreak strain of Salmonella Nchanga. Seven samples yielded the outbreak strains of both Salmonella Bareilly and Salmonella Nchanga., On May 10, 2012, Moon Fishery (India) Pvt. Ltd., the manufacturer of the frozen yellowfin tuna Nakaochi Scrape, expanded the voluntary recallExternal to include its 22-pound boxes of “Tuna Strips”\x9d, Product of India, marked as “AA”\x9d or “AAA Grade”\x9d because the product has the potential to be contaminated with Salmonella. The recall was announced after FDA laboratories isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly from a sample of tuna strips from Moon Fishery (India) Pvt Ltd collected as part of increased surveillance efforts. The shipment in question did not enter into U.S. commerce and no human illnesses were associated with this product. FDA laboratory sampling results are available at the FDA websiteExternal., This was the first documented outbreak of human salmonellosis linked to raw, scraped tuna product in the United States. This was also the first foodborne outbreak of Salmonella Nchanga reported in the United States. Consumers should not eat the recalled frozen raw yellowfin tuna product, known as Nakaochi Scrape, from Moon Marine USA Corporation, and retailers and food service establishments should not serve it. Additional advice for consumers is available here. Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella infections, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., , A total of 425 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Bareilly or Salmonella Nchanga were reported from 28 states and the District of Columbia. Since the last update, 35 new cases were reported from 12 states: Alabama (1), California (1), Georgia (2), Illinois (1), New Hampshire (2), New Jersey (5), New York (4), Pennsylvania (3), South Carolina (1), Texas (1), Virginia (11), and Wisconsin (3)., Four hundred and ten persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly were reported from 28 states and the District of Columbia. The number of ill persons with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (5), Arkansas (1), California (8), Colorado (1), Connecticut (11), District of Columbia (3), Florida (1), Georgia (20), Illinois (30) Indiana (1), Kansas (1), Louisiana (6), Massachusetts (36), Maryland (39), Missouri (4), Mississippi (2), Nebraska (2), North Carolina (12), New Hampshire (2), New Jersey (39), New York (62), Pennsylvania (37), Rhode Island (6), South Carolina (5), Tennessee (4), Texas (14), Virginia (33), Vermont (1), and Wisconsin (24)., Fifteen persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Nchanga were reported from 7 states. The number of ill persons with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Nchanga identified in each state was as follows: Georgia (2), Maryland (1), New Jersey (3), New York (6), Texas (1), Virginia (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Among 425 persons for whom information was available, illness onset dates ranged from January 1 to July 7, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 30 years; 60% of patients were female. Among 326 persons with available information, 55 (17%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths were reported., A total of 390 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Bareilly or Salmonella Nchanga have been reported from 27 states and the District of Columbia. The 74 new cases are from Alabama (1), California (3), Connecticut (2), District of Columbia (1), Georgia (5), Illinois (2), Kansas (1), Louisiana (2), Massachusetts (3), Maryland (13), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (9), New York (10), North Carolina (2), Pennsylvania (9), South Carolina (1), Texas (7), and Wisconsin (2)., 376 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly have been reported from 27 states and the District of Columbia. The number of ill persons with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (4), Arkansas (1), California (7), Colorado (1), Connecticut (11), District of Columbia (3), Florida (1), Georgia (18), Illinois (29), Indiana (1), Kansas (1), Louisiana (6), Massachusetts (36), Maryland (39), Missouri (4), Mississippi (2), Nebraska (2), New Jersey (35), New York (58), North Carolina (12), Pennsylvania (34), Rhode Island (6), South Carolina (4), Tennessee (4), Texas (13), Virginia (22), Vermont (1), and Wisconsin (21)., 14 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Nchanga have been reported from 7 states. The number of ill persons with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Nchanga identified in each state is as follows: Georgia (2), Maryland (1), New Jersey (2), New York (6), Texas (1), Virginia (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Among 390 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from January 1, 2012 to June 3, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 30 years. Sixty percent of patients are female. Among 291 persons with available information, 47 (16%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 18, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. The numbers of new cases have declined substantially since the peak in April 2012.  The outbreak may continue at a low level for the next several months since some food establishments may be unaware that they received recalled product and continue to serve this frozen raw yellowfin tuna product, which has a long shelf-life. Food establishments should not serve recalled frozen raw yellowfin tuna product, and consumers should not eat it., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing surveillance to identify new cases., A total of 316 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Bareilly or Salmonella Nchanga have been reported from 26 states and the District of Columbia. The 58 new cases are from Alabama (1), California (2), Colorado (1), Georgia (3), Illinois (4), Indiana (1), Louisiana (1), Maryland (3), Massachusetts (6), New Jersey (1), New York (10), North Carolina (6), Pennsylvania (5), Tennessee (2), Texas (3), Virginia (6), and Wisconsin (3)., Three hundred and four persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly have been reported from 26 states and the District of Columbia. The number of ill persons with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (3), Arkansas (1), California (4), Colorado (1), Connecticut (9), District of Columbia (2), Florida (1), Georgia (13), Illinois (27), Indiana (1), Louisiana (4), Maryland (27), Massachusetts (33), Mississippi (2), Missouri (4), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (26), New York (48), North Carolina (10), Pennsylvania (25), Rhode Island (6), South Carolina (3), Tennessee (4), Texas (7), Virginia (22), Vermont (1), and Wisconsin (19)., Twelve persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Nchanga have been reported from 5 states. The number of ill persons with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Nchanga identified in each state is as follows: Georgia (2), New Jersey (2), New York (6), Virginia (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Among 316 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from January 28 to May 3, 2012. Ill persons range in age from &lt;1 to 86 years, with a median age of 30. Fifty-nine percent of patients are female. Among 217 persons with available information, 37 (17%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after April 17, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Laboratory testing conducted by state public health laboratories in Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and Wisconsin has isolated Salmonella from 53 (96%) of 55 samples taken from intact packages of frozen yellow fin tuna scrape from Moon Marine USA Corporation or from sushi prepared with the implicated scrape tuna product. Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis results are available for Salmonella isolates from 41 of the 53 positive samples. Thirty-six samples yielded the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly, and 12 samples yielded the outbreak strain of Salmonella Nchanga. Seven samples yielded the outbreak strains of both Salmonella Bareilly and Salmonella Nchanga., On April 24, 2012, FDA issued a document that lists observations made by the FDA Representative(s) during the inspection of a Moon Fishery (India) Pvt. Ltd facility conducted as part of this ongoing outbreak investigation., On May 10, 2012 Moon Fishery (India) Pvt. Ltd., the manufacturer of the frozen yellowfin tuna Nakaochi scrape recently recalled, expanded the voluntary recall to include  its 22-pound boxes of “Tuna Strips”\x9d, Product of India, marked as “AA”\x9d or “AAA Grade”\x9d because the product has the potential to be contaminated with Salmonella., On April 13, 2012, Moon Marine USA Corporation (also known as MMI) of Cupertino, California voluntarily recalled 58,828 lbs of a frozen raw yellowfin tuna product, labeled as Nakaochi Scrape AA or AAA. Nakaochi Scrape is tuna backmeat, which is specifically scraped off from the bones, and looks like a ground product., A total of 258 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Bareilly or Salmonella Nchanga have been reported from 24 states and the District of Columbia. The 58 new cases are from California (2), Connecticut (1), Georgia (1), Illinois (8), Maryland (4), Massachusetts (3), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (8), New York (6), North Carolina (1), Pennsylvania (13), Tennessee (2), Virginia (7), and Wisconsin (1)., Two-hundred forty-seven persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly have been reported from 24 states and the District of Columbia. The number of ill persons with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (2), Arkansas (1), California (2), Connecticut (9), District of Columbia (2), Florida (1), Georgia (10), Illinois (23), Louisiana (3), Maryland (24), Massachusetts (27), Mississippi (2), Missouri (4), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (25), New York (39), North Carolina (4), Pennsylvania (20), Rhode Island (6), South Carolina (3), Tennessee (2), Texas (4), Virginia (16), Vermont (1), and Wisconsin (16)., Eleven persons infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Nchanga have been reported from 5 states. The number of ill persons with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Nchanga identified in each state is as follows: Georgia (2), New Jersey (2), New York (5), Virginia (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Among 258 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from January 28 to April 20, 2012. Ill persons range in age from 4 to 86 years, with a median age of 30. Fifty-seven percent of patients are female. Among 173 persons with available information, 32 (18%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after April 4, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., A total of 200 individuals infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Bareilly or Salmonella Nchanga have been reported from 21 states and the District of Columbia. The 40 new cases are from Connecticut (2), Georgia (5), Illinois (1), Maryland (6), Massachusetts (1), New Jersey (11), New York (8), Pennsylvania (1), Rhode Island (1), Virginia (1), Vermont (1), and Wisconsin (2)., Among 200 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from January 28 to April 12, 2012. Ill persons range in age from 4 to 86 years, with a median age of 30. Fifty-nine percent of patients are female. Among 153 persons with available information, 28 (18%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after March 27, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., During April 2012, CDC began collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Nchanga infections. Salmonella Nchanga is extremely rare in the United States. Among 10 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from February 19 to April 5, 2012. Ill persons range in age from 17 to 86 years, with a median age of 33 years. Seventy-five percent of patients are female. Among 6 persons with available information, 1 (17%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported. Initial interviews with ill persons suggested a possible link to the Salmonella Bareilly outbreak. Among 5 people for whom information is available, all 5 (100%) reported eating sushi in the 7 days before illness. Among the 4 who reported a specific sushi type, 2 (50%) reported eating “spicy tuna.”, As part of the ongoing Salmonella Bareilly outbreak investigation, FDA collected and tested samples of unopened packages of recalled Nakaochi Scrape from Moon Marine USA Corporation. FDA laboratories have identified Salmonella in two samples of Nakaochi scrape yellowfin tuna with a PFGE pattern indistinguishable from the Salmonella Bareilly strain associated with this outbreak. One of the samples also yielded another type of Salmonella with a PFGE pattern indistinguishable from the cluster of Salmonella Nchanga infections. Testing conducted by the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture Trade and Consumer Protection laboratory isolated the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly from one sample of recalled tuna and one sample of a spicy tuna roll made with recalled tuna. Based on an epidemiological link and results of laboratory testing, CDC has combined this Salmonella Bareilly investigation with an ongoing multistate outbreak investigation of Salmonella serotype Nchanga infections. The two associated PFGE patterns have been grouped together as the “outbreak strains.”, A total of 160 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly have been reported from 20 states and the District of Columbia. The 19 new cases are from Illinois (1), Massachusetts (14), New York (2), North Carolina (1), and Virginia (1)., Among 160 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from January 28 to April 10, 2012. Ill persons range in age from 4 to 78 years, with a median age of 30. Sixty six percent of patients are female. Among 140 persons with available information, 26 (19%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after March 24, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., A total of 141 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly have been reported from 20 states and the District of Columbia. The 25 new cases are from Connecticut (1), Georgia (1), Illinois (3), Louisiana (1), Maryland (3), Massachusetts (1), Mississippi (1), Missouri (2), New Jersey (1), New York (4), Pennsylvania (1), Virginia (3), Texas (1), and Wisconsin (2)., Among 139 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from January 28 to April 1, 2012. Ill persons range in age from 4 to 78 years, with a median age of 30. Fifty-nine percent of patients are female. Among 107 persons with available information, 21 (20%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after March 20, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Collaborative investigation efforts of state, local, and federal public health agencies indicate that a frozen raw yellowfin tuna product, known as Nakaochi Scrape, from Moon Marine USA Corporation is the likely source of this outbreak of Salmonella Bareilly infections. Nakaochi Scrape is tuna backmeat that is scraped from the bones of tuna and may be used in sushi, sashimi, ceviche, and similar dishes. The product looks like raw ground tuna. Hypothesis-generating interviews of ill persons conducted by local and state health departments in March and April, 2012 suggested consumption of sushi made with raw tuna as a source for these infections. To date, among 53 ill persons who have been asked questions about eating sushi and other seafood in the week before illness, 43 (81%) reported eating sushi. This proportion is significantly higher when compared with results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy persons in which 5% reported eating “sushi, sashimi, or ceviche made with raw fish or shellfish” in the 7 days before they were interviewed. Of the 43 ill persons reporting eating sushi, 39 (91%) reported eating a sushi item containing tuna, and 36 (84%) reported eating a sushi item containing “spicy tuna.”, To date, a total of 7 clusters at restaurants or grocery stores have been identified where 2 or more unrelated ill persons reported eating in the week before illness. In each cluster, at least one ill person reported eating sushi purchased at the restaurant or grocery store. These clusters are located in 5 states: Connecticut, Maryland, Rhode Island, Texas, and Wisconsin., Several methods were used to evaluate the association between tuna and illness in this outbreak. To estimate the frequency of consumption of tuna and “spicy tuna” among all sushi eaters, investigators assembled a comparison group from 1) diners who ate at one of the cluster restaurants or grocery stores or 2) a restaurant where a single ill person, who was judged to have a reliable memory, recalled consuming sushi only once in the week before illness. Records were collected on sushi orders that were placed at the same time of day (lunch or dinner) and as close to the date when the ill person ate at the restaurant., This study is ongoing. Thus far, information has been collected from 4 clusters at restaurants or grocery stores. The proportion of sushi orders that contained tuna as an ingredient averaged 61% (ranging from 43% to 71%). The proportion of sushi orders that contained “spicy tuna” as an ingredient averaged 37% (ranging from 29% to 53%). These data suggest there is an association between illness and consumption of sushi made with tuna, and specifically “spicy tuna.”, Public health and regulatory officials also are visiting restaurants and grocery stores associated with ill persons and collecting information about the ingredients used in “spicy tuna” recipes. Based on available information from 5 of the 7 restaurant or grocery store clusters about ingredients used to make “spicy tuna”, raw tuna was found to be a common ingredient among all 5 clusters., State and local public health and regulatory officials are working with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to conduct a traceback of tuna. FDA has selected 4 of the clusters, which are located in Connecticut, Rhode Island, Texas, and Wisconsin, as the focus of the initial investigation. Information to date indicates that all 4 received the same imported frozen raw Nakaochi Scrape tuna product from a single tuna processing facility in India., This investigation is ongoing. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing surveillance to identify new cases. Further investigation is ongoing to identify possible sources of contamination and whether any other tuna products are linked with illness. CDC will update the public on the progress of this investigation as information becomes available., A total of 116 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly have been reported from 20 states and the District of Columbia. The 16 new cases are from Florida (1), Georgia (1), Illinois (1), Maryland (1), Massachusetts (4), Missouri (1), New York (1), Pennsylvania (2), Rhode Island (1), and Wisconsin (3)., Among 100 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from January 28 to March 31, 2012. Ill persons range in age from 4 to 78 years, with a median age of 31. Fifty percent of patients are female. Among 71 persons with available information, 12 (17%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after March 14, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., A total of 100 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly have been reported from 19 states and the District of Columbia. The 7 new cases are from Connecticut (1), Illinois (1), Maryland (2), New Jersey (1), Pennsylvania (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Among 100 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from January 28 to March 25, 2012. Ill persons range in age from 4 to 78 years, with a median age of 31. Forty-seven percent of patients are female. Among 51 persons with available information, 10 (20%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after March 8, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in many states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella serotype Bareilly infections. Salmonella Bareilly is an unusual serotype of Salmonella. Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., A total of 93 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Bareilly have been reported from 19 states and the District of Columbia. The number of ill people identified in each state with the outbreak strain is as follows: Alabama (2), Arkansas (1), Connecticut (4), District of Columbia (2), Georgia (4), Illinois (8), Louisiana (2), Maryland (8), Massachusetts (4), Mississippi (1), Missouri (1), New Jersey (6), New York (23), North Carolina (2), Pennsylvania (2), Rhode Island (4), South Carolina (3), Texas (3), Virginia (5), and Wisconsin (8)., Among 93 persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from January 28 to March 23, 2012. Ill persons range in age from 4 to 78 years, with a median age of 31. Forty-six percent of patients are female. Among 51 persons with available information, 10 (20%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after March 4, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. For more details, please see Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '79c998b4875e9ed2d05d2648de9beab3a1c20ee1b901badcaea49971e7d31737', 'headline': 'CDC - Eight Multistate Outbreaks of Human Salmonella Linked to Small Turtles - Salmonella', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 14, 54, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/small-turtles-03-12/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted October 18, 2013 3:00 PM ET, , These outbreaks appear to be over. However, small turtles continue to be an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States. More information about Salmonella from reptiles and amphibians and the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection is available., , CDC collaborated with public health and agriculture officials in many states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s Center for Veterinary Medicine (FDA-CVM) to investigate eight outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to exposure to turtles and their environments. Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. Outbreak strains were defined by PFGE pattern and serotype., A total of 473 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella were reported from 41 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico: Alabama (4), Alaska (2), Arizona (27), Arkansas (4), California (106), Colorado (6), Connecticut (1), Delaware (4), Florida (1), Georgia (10), Illinois (10), Indiana (1), Kansas (2), Kentucky (3), Louisiana (5), Maine (1), Maryland (17), Massachusetts (12), Michigan (5), Minnesota (1), Mississippi (4), Missouri (4), Nevada (11), New Jersey (26), New Mexico (15), New York (55), North Carolina (3), Ohio (6), Oregon (1), Pennsylvania (34), Puerto Rico (1), Rhode Island (1), South Carolina (17), South Dakota (1), Tennessee (7), Texas (45), Utah (1), Vermont (1), Virginia (5), Washington (5), Washington, D.C. (3), Wisconsin (2) and West Virginia (3)., Among 473 persons, reported and estimated illness onset dates ranged from May 23, 2011, to September 9, 2013. Among 462 persons for whom information was available, ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 94 years, with a median age of 4 years. Seventy percent of ill persons were children 10 years of age or younger, and 31% of ill persons were children 1 year of age or younger. Fifty-five percent of ill persons were female. Among 192 persons for whom information was available, 85 (44%) ill persons were of Hispanic ethnicity. Information about the association between reptiles and Salmonella is available in Spanish. Among 272 persons with available information, 78 (29%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., The numbers of new cases have declined substantially since the peak of the outbreak,  which occurred from July 2012 to September 2012, but illnesses are still being reported among people who have contact with small turtles. The outbreak is expected to continue at a low level for the next several months since consumers might be unaware of the risk of Salmonella infection from reptiles including small turtles. If properly cared for, small turtles have a long life expectancy., Turtles of any size, as well as other reptiles and amphibians, can be a source of human Salmonella infections. However, small turtles have been linked to more outbreaks of human Salmonella infections than other pet reptiles and amphibians. More information about Salmonella from reptiles and amphibians and the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection is available., Epidemiologic, environmental, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies linked these outbreaks to exposure to turtles and their environments., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with animals and foods eaten during the week before becoming ill. One hundred and eighty-seven (69%) of 272 ill persons interviewed reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Of the 141 ill persons who could recall the size of the turtle with which they had contact, 124 (88%) specifically reported exposure to turtles with shell length less than 4 inches. Fifty-five (80%) of 70 ill persons recalled contact with red eared slider turtles, which are commonly owned as pets. Other types of pet turtles such as yellow bellied sliders and mud turtles were also reported by ill people, however in many cases the specific type of turtle was not known., One hundred and sixteen ill persons reported where they acquired their small turtle. The most common source of small turtle purchase was street vendors, reported by 36 (31%) patients. Turtles were purchased from multiple other sources, including pet stores [21 (18%)], flea markets [14 (12%)], discount stores [8 (7%)], souvenir/gift shops [6 (5%)], other stores [4 (3%)], and online [3 (3%)]. Nineteen (16%) patients received small turtles as gifts, and 5 (4%) patients acquired turtles from a carnival, car show, fair, festival, or swap meet., State and local public health departments and regulatory agencies collected swab samples from turtles and turtle tank water from turtle habitats at ill persons’ homes and at retail establishments where ill persons reported purchasing turtles. Salmonella with patterns matching outbreak strains were identified from ill persons’ turtles or turtle habitats in seven of the eight outbreaks: outbreaks 1-6 and outbreak 8.  Turtle tank samples from retail stores where turtles in outbreaks 3 and 6 were purchased yielded the outbreak 3 and outbreak 6 strains, respectively. In four outbreaks, turtle tank water yielded one or more outbreak strains., Information provided by ill persons infected in several outbreaks was used by investigators from multiple state public health and agriculture agencies and FDA to trace the small turtles in ill persons’ households to retail establishments, turtle brokers, and eventually turtle farms. Traceback investigations of turtles purchased from Florida souvenir shops identified two turtle farms in Louisiana as the source of the turtles. The Florida Department of Health and the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission have collaborated to stop the sale of turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches from these shops. Salmonella with patterns matching outbreak strains 2 and 3 were identified from a turtle pond at one of the Louisiana turtle farms. The Louisiana Department of Agriculture and Forestry issued cease and desist orders in March 2013 for the source farms; therefore, turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches from these farms are no longer being sold domestically.  The source of turtles in other outbreaks could not be identified because of the challenges of tracing small turtles that are sold illegally by transient vendors., , , A total of 124 individuals infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain A and Salmonella Newport, strain A were reported from 22 states. Twenty-four new ill persons have been reported from Arkansas (2), Arizona (3), California (9), Delaware (1), Massachusetts (2), Missouri (1), New Jersey (1), New Mexico (1), New York (1), Pennsylvania (1), and Washington (2)., Illness onset dates ranged from August 3, 2011, to September 4, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 85 years, with a median age of 6 years. Sixty-two percent of ill persons were female. Ethnicity was reported for 47 ill persons, and of these, 33 (70%) were Hispanic. Among 72 persons with available information, 15 (21%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., The numbers of new cases have declined substantially since the peak of the outbreak, which occurred from July 2012 to September 2012, but illnesses are still being reported among people who have contact with small turtles. The outbreak is expected to continue at a low level for the next several months since consumers might be unaware of the risk of Salmonella infection from reptiles including small turtles. If properly cared for, small turtles have a long life expectancy.,  , A total of 23 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain A were reported from 13 states and Puerto Rico. Four new ill persons have been reported from New Mexico (1), Puerto Rico (1), South Dakota (1), and Texas (1)., Illness onset dates ranged from December 9, 2011, to August 6, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 89 years, with a median age of 5 years. Sixty-one percent of ill persons were female. Ethnicity information was available for 10 ill persons, and of these, 6 (60%) were Hispanic. Among 18 persons with available information, 5 (28%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths were reported., The numbers of new cases have declined substantially since the peak of the outbreak, which occurred from July 2012 to September 2012, but illnesses are still being reported among people who have contact with small turtles. The outbreak is expected to continue at a low level for the next several months since consumers might be unaware of the risk of Salmonella infection from reptiles including small turtles. If properly cared for, small turtles have a long life expectancy.,  , A total of 58 individuals infected with Salmonella Poona, strain A and Salmonella Sandiego, strain C were reported from 22 states. Three new ill persons have been reported from New York., Illness onset dates ranged from October 20, 2011, to August 7, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 84 years, with a median age of 3 years. Sixty-three percent of ill persons were female. Ethnicity information was available for 20 ill persons, and of these, 5 (25%) were Hispanic. Among 40 persons with available information, 16 (40%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., The numbers of new cases have declined substantially since the peak of the outbreak, which occurred from July 2012 to September 2012, but illnesses are still being reported among people who have contact with small turtles. The outbreak is expected to continue at a low level for the next several months since consumers might be unaware of the risk of Salmonella infection from reptiles including small turtles. If properly cared for, small turtles have a long life expectancy.,  , A total of 120 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B were reported from 28 states and the District of Columbia. Sixteen new ill persons have been reported from Arizona (4), California (7), Kentucky (1), New York (1), Pennsylvania (1), and Texas (2)., Illness onset dates ranged from May 23, 2011, to August 21, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 94 years, with a median age of 2 years. Fifty-three percent of ill persons were female. Ethnicity information was available for 52 ill persons, and of these, 19 (37%) were Hispanic. Among 69 persons with available information, 19 (28%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., The numbers of new cases have declined substantially since the peak of the outbreak, which occurred from July 2012 to September 2012, but illnesses are still being reported among people who have contact with small turtles. The outbreak is expected to continue at a low level for the next several months since consumers might be unaware of the risk of Salmonella infection from reptiles including small turtles. If properly cared for, small turtles have a long life expectancy.,  , A total of 78 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B were reported from 13 states. Thirty-five new ill persons have been reported from Arizona (11), California (14), Illinois (1), Michigan (2), New Mexico (1), Ohio (1), Texas (3), and Washington (2)., Illness onset dates ranged from April 1, 2012, to September 9, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 83 years, with a median age of 3 years. Forty-four percent of ill persons were female. Ethnicity information was available for 29 ill persons, and of these, 14 (48%) were Hispanic. Among 30 persons with available information, 8 (27%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., The numbers of new cases have declined substantially since the peak of the outbreak, but illnesses are still being reported among people who have contact with small turtles. The outbreak is expected to continue at a low level for the next several months since consumers might be unaware of the risk of Salmonella infection from reptiles including small turtles. If properly cared for, small turtles have a long life expectancy., , , Four of the eight multistate outbreaks remain under active investigation and updates for these outbreaks are listed below. The outbreaks are numbered in the order in which they were identified. Turtles are an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States, particularly in infants and young children. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., Illnesses that occurred after April 12, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. For more details, please see Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases.,  , A total of 100 individuals infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain A and Salmonella Newport, strain A have been reported from 18 states. Seven new ill persons have been reported from Arizona (1), California (3), Illinois (1), Massachusetts (1), and Ohio (1)., Illness onset dates range from August 3, 2011 to May 6, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 6 years. Sixty-three percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity was reported for 38 ill persons, and of these, 27 (71%) were Hispanic. Among 60 persons with available information, 13 (22%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.,  , A total of 19 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain A were reported from 11 states., Illness onset dates ranged from December 9, 2011 to January 22, 2013. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 90 years, with a median age of 4 years. Sixty-three percent of ill persons were female. Ethnicity information was available for 8 ill persons; of these, 5 (63%) were Hispanic. Among 15 persons with available information, 4 (27%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak appears to be over. However, turtles are an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States. More information about Salmonella from reptiles and amphibians, and the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection is available.,  , A total of 55 individuals infected with Salmonella Poona, strain A and Salmonella Sandiego, strain C have been reported from 22 states.  Illness onset dates range from October 20, 2011 to January 28, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 84 years, with a median age of 3 years. Sixty-six percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 18 ill persons; of these, 3 (17%) are Hispanic. Among 35 persons with available information, 12 (34%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Traceback investigations of turtles purchased from Florida souvenir shops identified two turtle farms in Louisiana as the source of the turtles. The Florida Department of Health and the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission have collaborated to stop the sale of turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches from these shops. , The Louisiana Department of Agriculture and Forestry issued cease and desist orders in March 2013 for the source farms; therefore, turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches from these farms are no longer being sold domestically. , No new ill persons in Outbreak 3 have been reported since February 2013; however, this outbreak investigation remains open because investigations of the Louisiana turtle farms are ongoing.,  , A total of 104 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B have been reported from 27 states and the District of Columbia. Eight new ill persons have been reported from Arizona (1), California (2), District of Columbia (1), Mississippi (2), New Jersey (1), and Washington (1)., Illness onset dates range from May 23, 2011 to April 28, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 94 years, with a median age of 2 years. Fifty-two percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 41 ill persons; of these, 14 (34%) are Hispanic. Among 53 persons with available information, 16 (30%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.,  , A total of 43 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B have been reported from 9 states. Five new ill persons have been reported from Arizona (2) and California (3)., Illness onset dates range from April 1, 2012 to April 29, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 83 years, with a median age of 3 years. Thirty-eight percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 18 ill persons; of these, 11 (61%) are Hispanic. Among 19 persons with available information, 5 (26%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., , , The eight multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to small turtles are numbered in the order in which they were identified. The details of each investigation are described below. Three of the outbreaks appear to be over; however, five outbreaks remain under active investigation. Turtles remain an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States, particularly in infants and young children.  More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page. Illnesses that occurred after February 18, 2013 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. For more details, please see Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases.,  , A total of 93 individuals infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain A and Salmonella Newport, strain A have been reported from 17 states. Four new ill persons have been reported from California., Illness onset dates range from August 3, 2011 to March 17, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 7 years. Sixty-two percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity was reported for 37 ill persons, and of these, 26 (70%) were Hispanic. Among 59 persons with available information, 13 (22%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Among the 59 ill persons for whom information is available, 45 (76%) reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Thirty-one ill persons described the size of the turtle they were exposed to; 30 (97%) described a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches.,  , A total of 19 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain A have been reported from 11 states., Illness onset dates range from December 9, 2011 to February 5, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 90 years, with a median age of 4 years. Sixty-three percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 8 ill persons; of these, 5 (63%) are Hispanic. Among 15 persons with available information, 4 (17%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.,  , A total of 55 individuals infected with Salmonella Poona, strain A and Salmonella Sandiego, strain C have been reported from 22 states. Four new ill persons have been reported from Alabama (1), Georgia (1), and Louisiana (2)., Illness onset dates range from October 20, 2011 to January 28, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 84 years, with a median age of 3.5 years. Sixty-seven percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 18 ill persons; of these, 3 (17%) are Hispanic. Among 34 persons with available information, 12 (35%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Among the 41 ill persons for whom information was available, 31 (76%) reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Twenty-three persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; of these, 19 (83%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches., Traceback investigations of turtles purchased from Florida souvenir shops identified two turtle farms in Louisiana as the source of the turtles. Investigations of these farms are ongoing.,  , A total of 7 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B, were reported from 3 states., Illness onset dates ranged from February 25, 2012 to September 29, 2012. Ill persons ranged in age from less than 1 year to 65 years, with a median age of 10 years. Fifty-seven percent of ill persons were female. Ethnicity information was available for 5 ill persons; of these, 3 (60%) were Hispanic. Among 6 persons with available information, 1 (17%) was hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak appears to be over. However, turtles are an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States. More information about Salmonella from reptiles and amphibians, and the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, is available.,  , A total of 96 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B have been reported from 26 states and the District of Columbia. Eight new ill persons have been reported from New Jersey (1), New York (1), South Carolina (3), and Texas (4)., Illness onset dates range from May 23, 2011 to March 23, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 94 years, with a median age of 2 years. Fifty-four percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 40 ill persons; of these, 14 (35%) are Hispanic. Among 51 persons with available information, 15 (29%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Among the 53 ill persons with available information, 39 (74%) reported contact with turtles in the week before becoming ill. Twenty-six ill persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; 22 (85%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches., In February 2013, samples from the environment of a Minnesota turtle to which a Wisconsin case was exposed, yielded the outbreak strain Salmonella Pomona, strain B.,  , A total of 38 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B have been reported from 9 states. Six new ill persons have been reported from California (2), New Mexico (1), Texas (2), and Utah (1)., Illness onset dates range from April 1, 2012 to March 3, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 83 years, with a median age of 2 years. Thirty-eight percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 16 ill persons; of these, 9 (56%) are Hispanic. Among 18 persons with available information, 5 (28%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Among the 19 ill persons with information available, 11 (58%) reported exposure to turtles before they became ill. Ten ill persons reported the size of the turtle they had contact with, and 8 (80%) described turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches.,  , A total of 19 individuals infected with Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:-, strain A were reported from 4 states., Illness onset dates ranged from June 8, 2012 to September 27, 2012. Infected individuals ranged in age from less than 1 year to 33 years, with a median age of 2 years. Fifty-six percent of ill persons were female. Ethnicity information was available for 6 ill persons; of these, none were Hispanic. Among 7 ill persons with available information, 3 (43%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., This outbreak appears to be over. However, turtles are an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States. More information about Salmonella from reptiles and amphibians, and the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, is available.,  , A total of 44 individuals infected with Salmonella Typhimurium, strain A have been reported from 13 states and the District of Columbia. One new case has been reported from Connecticut. , Illness onset dates range from July 7, 2012 to January 15, 2013.  Infected individuals range in age from less than 1 year to 70 years, with a median age of 3 years. Fifty-five percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 17 ill persons; of these, 5 (29%) are Hispanic. Among 25 ill persons with available information, 9 (36%) have been hospitalized., This outbreak appears to be over. However, turtles are an important cause of human Salmonella infections in the United States. More information about Salmonella from reptiles and amphibians, and the steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, is available., Among the 24 ill persons with information available, 15 (63%) reported exposure to turtles before they became ill. Eight ill persons reported the size of the turtle they had contact with, and all 8 (100%) described turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches., , , Contact with reptiles (such as turtles, snakes, and lizards) and amphibians (such as frogs and toads) can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Small turtles, with a shell length of less than 4 inches, are a well-known source of human Salmonella infections, especially among young children. Because of this risk, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has banned the sale and distribution of these turtles since 1975. Amphibians and reptiles can carry Salmonella germs and still appear healthy and clean. Salmonella germs are shed in their droppings and can easily contaminate their bodies and anything in areas where these animals live. Reptiles and amphibians that live in tanks or aquariums can contaminate the water with germs, which can spread to people., CDC continues to collaborate with public health officials in multiple states and the FDA to investigate 8 overlapping, multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to exposure to turtles or their environments (e.g., water from a turtle habitat). Because the majority of ill persons who reported contact with small turtles purchased the turtles from a street vendor, it is difficult to determine the original source of the turtles., Public health investigators are using DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of these outbreaks. Using this method, a total of 347 persons infected with the outbreak strains of Salmonella Sandiego, Newport, Pomona, Poona, I 4,[5],12:i:-, and Typhimurium have been reported from 37 states and the District of Columbia in overlapping, multistate outbreaks linked to contact with small turtles and their habitats. Twenty-eight percent of ill persons have been hospitalized, and no deaths have been reported. Seventy percent of ill persons are children 10 years of age or younger, and 33% of ill persons are children 1 year of age or younger. Forty-four percent of ill persons are of Hispanic ethnicity., Results of the epidemiologic and environmental investigations indicate exposure to turtles or their environments (e.g., water from a turtle habitat) is the source of these outbreaks. Seventy percent of ill persons reported exposure to turtles prior to their illness. Ninety percent of ill persons with turtle exposure specifically reported exposure to small turtles. Thirty-three percent of ill persons with small turtles reported purchasing the turtles from street vendors, and 11% reported purchasing small turtles from pet stores. Illnesses that occurred after January 3, 2013 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. For more details, please see Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases., The 8 multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to small turtles are numbered in the order in which they were identified. The details of each investigation are described below.,  , A total of 88 individuals infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain A and Salmonella Newport, strain A have been reported from 16 states. Four new cases have been reported from California (1), Kentucky (1), Maryland (1), and Nevada (1)., Illness onset dates range from August 3, 2011 to January 15, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 7 years. Sixty percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity was reported for 35 ill persons, and of these, 24 (69%) were Hispanic. Among 58 persons with available information, 13 (22%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Among the 57 ill persons for whom information is available, 43 (75%) reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Thirty patients described the size of the turtle they were exposed to; 29 (97%) described a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches. Among those reporting exposure to small turtles, 12 (41%) of the 29 with information available were exposed to turtles purchased from a street vendor.,  , A total of 19 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain A have been reported from 11 states. One new case has been reported from New York., Illness onset dates range from December 9, 2011 to January 22, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 90 years, with a median age of 4 years. Sixty-seven percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 7 cases; of these, 4 (57%) are Hispanic. Among 15 persons with available information, 4 (27%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported.,  , A total of 51 individuals infected with Salmonella Poona, strain A and Salmonella Sandiego, strain C have been reported from 22 states. Sixteen ill persons infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain C are included in the case count based on epidemiologic and laboratory evidence linking them with this outbreak. Eighteen new cases have been reported from California (1), Georgia (2), Illinois (3), Maine (1), New Jersey (2), New York (2), Pennsylvania (1), Rhode Island (1), South Carolina (2), Tennessee (1), and Texas (2)., Illness onset dates range from October 20, 2011 to December 27, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 84 years, with a median age of 3 years. Sixty-seven percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 15 cases; of these, 2 (13%) are Hispanic. Among 29 persons with available information, 11 (38%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Among the 39 ill persons for whom information is available, 29 (74%) reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Twenty-two persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; of these, 18 (82%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches., In August 2012, samples taken from turtle tank water at the home of an ill person in Georgia who purchased a turtle from a souvenir shop in Florida yielded the outbreak strain Salmonella Sandiego, strain C. Turtle tank water from this store and another souvenir shop in Florida also yielded the outbreak strain, Salmonella Sandiego, strain C.  Salmonella Poona, strain A and Salmonella Sandiego, strain C have been isolated from turtle tanks housing turtles from a common supplier, indicating that infections with these two strains are a single outbreak.,  , There have been no new updates since the December 6, 2012 update.,  , A total of 88 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B have been reported from 24 states and the District of Columbia. Three new cases have been reported from Washington, D.C. (1), New Mexico (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Illness onset dates range from May 23, 2011 to December 20, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 94 years, with a median age of 2 years. Fifty-two percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 35 cases; of these, 14 (40%) are Hispanic. Among 46 persons with available information, 13 (28%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Among the 47 ill persons with available information, 34 (72%) reported contact with turtles in the week before becoming ill. Twenty ill persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; 17 (85%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches.,  , A total of 32 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B have been reported from 5 states. Eleven new cases have been reported from California (4), Nevada (1), New York (1), and Texas (5)., Illness onset dates range from April 1, 2012 to January 23, 2013. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 83 years, with a median age of 2 years. Forty-one percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 14 cases; of these, 7 (50%) are Hispanic. Among 15 persons with available information, 3 (20%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Among the 16 ill persons with information available, 9 (56%) reported exposure to turtles before they became ill. Nine ill persons reported the size of the turtle they had contact with, and 7 (78%) described turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches.,  , As of February 11, 2013, a total of 19 individuals infected with Salmonella I 4,[5],12:i:-, strain A have been reported from 4 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Maryland (2), New York (4), Ohio (1), Pennsylvania (7), and South Carolina (5)., Illness onset dates range from June 8, 2012 to September 27, 2012. Infected individuals range in age from less than 1 year to 33 years, with a median age of 2 years. Fifty-six percent of patients are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 6 cases; of these, none are Hispanic. Among 7 patients with available information, 3 (43%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Among the 13 ill persons with information available, 9 (69%) reported exposure to turtles before they became ill. Three ill persons reported the size of the turtle they had contact with, and all 3 (100%) described turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches., This outbreak PFGE pattern was associated with widely geographically dispersed cases, and exposure data suggested a smaller, focal outbreak. Multiple-Locus Variable-number tandem repeat Analysis, or MLVA, is being used in addition to PFGE to differentiate outbreak cases from unrelated illnesses.,  , As of February 11, 2013, a total of 43 individuals infected with Salmonella Typhimurium, strain A have been reported from 11 states and the District of Columbia. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Alabama (1), Florida (1), Massachusetts (4), Maryland (7), Missouri (1), Mississippi (1), New Jersey (10), New York (11), Pennsylvania (4), South Carolina (1), Tennessee (1), and Washington, D.C. (1)., Illness onset dates range from July 7, 2012 to January 15, 2013. Infected individuals range in age from less than 1 year to 70 years, with a median age of 3 years. Fifty-six percent of patients are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 14 cases; of these, 4 (29%) are Hispanic. Among 21 patients with available information, 7 (33%) have been hospitalized., Among the 20 ill persons with information available, 13 (65%) reported exposure to turtles before they became ill. Eight ill persons reported the size of the turtle they had contact with, and all 8 (100%) described turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches., In August 2012, samples from a turtle belonging to an ill person in Florida yielded the outbreak strain of Salmonella Typhimurium, strain A. Also in August, the outbreak strain was isolated from turtle tank water at a New York City discount store where a patient infected with a non-outbreak strain of Salmonella purchased a small turtle., , , A total of 84 individuals infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain A, and Salmonella Newport, strain A, have been reported from 15 states. Two new cases have been reported from Illinois and New Jersey., Illness onset dates range from August 3, 2011 to November 11, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 7 years. Sixty percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity was reported for 34 ill persons, and of these, 22 (65%) were Hispanic. Among 56 persons with available information, 13 (23%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after October 1, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 55 ill persons for whom information is available, 42 (76%) reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Among those reporting exposure to small turtles, 12 (41%) of the 29 with information available were exposed to turtles purchased from a street vendor., In August 2012, samples taken from a turtle and its tank water at the home of an ill person in Texas yielded the outbreak strain Salmonella Sandiego, strain A.,  , A total of 18 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain A, have been reported from 11 states. Two new cases have been reported from Colorado and New York., Illness onset dates range from December 9, 2011 to October 24, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 90 years, with a median age of 4 years. Sixty-seven percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 7 cases; of these, 4 (57%) are Hispanic. Among 15 persons with available information, 4 (27%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after October 4, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 13 ill persons who reported contact with turtles before becoming ill, 7 (54%) described the size of the turtle they had contact with. All 7 (100%) of these individuals identified turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches.,  , A total of 33 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain A, have been reported from 17 states. Five new cases have been reported from Georgia (1), Kansas (1), Louisiana (2), and Pennsylvania (1)., Illness onset dates range from October 20, 2011 to October 18, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 70 years, with a median age of 3 years. Fifty-eight percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 9 cases; of these, none are Hispanic. Among 21 persons with available information, 8 (38%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after October 10, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 24 ill persons for whom information is available, 18 (75%) reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Fifteen persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; of these, 11 (73%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches.,  , A total of 7 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B, have been reported from 3 states. One new case has been reported from Texas., Illness onset dates range from February 25, 2012 to September 29, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 65 years, with a median age of 10 years. Fifty-seven percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 5 cases; of these, 3 (60%) are Hispanic. Among 6 persons with available information, 1 (17%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after October 18, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., In August 2012, samples of turtle tank water from a souvenir store in the Florida panhandle linked to Outbreak 3 yielded the Outbreak 4 strain, Salmonella Sandiego, strain B.,  , A total of 85 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B, have been reported from 23 states. Twelve new cases have been reported from California (1), Georgia (1), Maryland (1), Missouri (1), New Mexico (4), Texas (3), and West Virginia (1)., Illness onset dates range from May 23, 2011 to November 17, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 94 years, with a median age of 2 years. Fifty-two percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 30 cases; of these, 11 (37%) are Hispanic. Among 38 persons with available information, 12 (32%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after October 30, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 39 ill persons with available information, 28 (72%) reported contact with turtles in the week before becoming ill. Fourteen ill persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; 13 (93%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches.,  , A total of 21 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B, have been reported from 5 states. Seven new cases have been reported from California (6) and Pennsylvania (1)., Illness onset dates range from April 1, 2012 to November 15, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 83 years, with a median age of 2 years. Thirty-nine percent of ill persons are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 9 cases; of these, 6 (67%) are Hispanic. Among 10 persons with available information, 3 (30%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after November 4, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 11 ill persons with information available, 8 (72%) reported exposure to turtles before they became ill. Eight ill persons reported the size of the turtle they had contact with, and 7 (88%) described turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches., In October 2012, samples from a turtle belonging to an ill person in California yielded the outbreak strain of Salmonella Poona, strain B., , A total of 82 individuals infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain A, and Salmonella Newport, strain A, have been reported from 15 states. The 6 new ill persons are from California (3), Georgia (1), and New York (2)., Illness onset dates range from August 3, 2011 to September 13, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 7 years. Fifty-seven percent of patients are female. Ethnicity was reported for 32 ill persons, and of these, 22 (69%) are Hispanic. Among 54 persons with available information, 13 (24%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after August 12, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported.,  , No new illnesses have been reported since the September 7, 2012 update.,  , A total of 28 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Poona, strain A, have been reported from 16 states. The 3 new ill persons are from Arkansas (2) and Missouri (1)., Illness onset dates range from October 20, 2011 to August 28, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 70 years, with a median age of 3 years. Sixty-five percent of patients are female. None of the 6 patients for whom ethnicity information is available are Hispanic. Among 18 persons with available information, 6 (33%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after August 31, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported.,  , No new illnesses have been reported since the May 10, 2012 update.,  , A total of 73 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, Strain B, have been reported from 21 states. The 6 new ill persons are from California (2), Michigan (1), New York (1), South Carolina (1), and Texas (1). One ill person in Outbreak 2 infected with Salmonella Pomona, Strain A, sought further medical care several weeks after the initial test result.  Additional laboratory tests for this ill person yielded Salmonella Pomona Strain B, suggesting that Outbreak 2 and Outbreak 5 may be linked. This ill person is not included in the Outbreak 5 case count., Illness onset dates range from May 23, 2011 to September 3, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 94 years, with a median age of 2 years. Fifty-four percent of patients are female. Ethnicity information was reported for 23 patients; of these, 8 (35%) are Hispanic. Among 35 persons with available information, 11 (31%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after September 7, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported.,  , A total of 14 individuals infected with Salmonella Poona, Strain B, have been reported from 5 states. The 8 new ill persons are from California (6), Texas (1), and Wisconsin (1)., Illness onset dates range from April 1, 2012 to September 26, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 83 years, with a median age of 2 years. Forty-three percent of patients are female. Ethnicity information was reported for 4 patients; of these, 1 (25%) is Hispanic. Among 4 persons with available information, 1 (25%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after September 17, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., , A total of 76 individuals infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain A, and Salmonella Newport, strain A, have been reported from 15 states. The 6 new cases are from California (1), New Jersey (2), New York (1), and Pennsylvania (2)., Illness onset dates range from August 3, 2011 to August 14, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 8 years. Fifty-seven percent of patients are female. Ethnicity was reported for 30 ill persons, and of these, 21 (70%) were Hispanic. Among 53 persons with available information, 12 (24%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after July 15, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 51 ill persons for whom information is available, 41 (81%) reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Thirty persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; of these, 30 (100%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches. Among those reporting exposure to small turtles, 12 (41%) of the 29 with information available were exposed to turtles purchased from a street vendor. Of the 15 ill persons who reported the type of turtle they had contact with, 13 (87%) reported contact with red-eared slider turtles.,  , A total of 16 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain A, have been reported from 10 states. The new case is from New Jersey., Illness onset dates range from December 9, 2011 to July 21, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 90 years, with a median age of 16 years. Sixty-nine percent of patients are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 4 cases; of these, 3 (75%) are Hispanic. Among 13 persons with available information, 4 (31%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after August 14, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported.,  , A total of 25 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Poona, strain A, have been reported from 12 states. The 4 new cases are from Georgia (1), Kansas (1), North Carolina (1), and Tennessee (1)., Illness onset dates range from October 20, 2011 to August 12, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 70 years, with a median age of 3 years. Sixty-five percent of patients are female. None of the 6 patients for whom ethnicity information is available are Hispanic. Among 18 persons with available information, 6 (33%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after July 30, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 21 ill persons for whom information is available, 17 (81%) reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Eleven persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; of these, 9 (82%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches., During interviews, six ill persons reported recent travel to the Florida panhandle and either purchased or handled small turtles at local souvenir stores. As a result, souvenir stores in the Florida panhandle have voluntarily agreed to stop selling turtles at the urging of the local health department., Investigations conducted by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Commission identified brokers and turtle farms that supplied turtles to souvenir stores in the Florida panhandle area associated with ill persons.  This information has been shared with officials from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The investigation is ongoing., In August 2012, five samples of turtle tank water from 6 souvenir stores in the Florida panhandle yielded the outbreak strain, Salmonella Poona, strain A.,  , No new cases have been reported since the May 10, 2012 update.,  , A total of 67 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, Strain B, have been reported from 21 states. The 17 new cases are from Arizona (1), California (9), Delaware (1), Illinois (1), Nevada (1), South Carolina (1), Texas (1), Virginia (1), and West Virginia (1)., Illness onset dates range from May 23, 2011 to August 19, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 94 years, with a median age of 2 years. Fifty six percent of patients are female. Ethnicity information was reported for 22 patients; of these, 8 (36%) are Hispanic. Among 33 persons with available information, 11 (33%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after August 14, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported.,  , No new cases have been reported since the June 26, 2012 update., , A total of 70 individuals infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain A, and Salmonella Newport, strain A, have been reported from 15 states. The 8 new cases are from California (2), Illinois (1), Massachusetts (2), Nevada (1), Pennsylvania (1), and Texas (1), Illness onset dates range from August 3, 2011 to July 9, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 8 years. Fifty-seven percent of patients are female. Ethnicity was reported for 26 ill persons, and of these, 19 (73%) were Hispanic. Among 50 persons with available information, 12 (24%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after June 9, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 51 ill persons for whom information is available, 40 (78%) reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Thirty persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; of these, 29 (97%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches. Among those reporting exposure to small turtles, 12 (46%) of the 26 with information available were exposed to turtles purchased from a street vendor. Of the 14 ill persons who reported the type of turtle they had contact with, 13 (93%) reported contact with red-eared slider turtles.,  , A total of 15 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain A, have been reported from 10 states. The 4 new cases are from California (1), Nevada (1), Pennsylvania (1), and Virginia (1)., Illness onset dates range from December 9, 2011 to July 16, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 90 years, with a median age of 16 years. Sixty-seven percent of patients are female. Ethnicity information is currently available for 4 cases; of these, 3 (75%) are Hispanic. Among 12 persons with available information, 4 (33%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after June 28, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 12 ill persons for whom information is available, 7 (58%) reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Among the 4 ill persons who described the size of the turtle they had contact with, all 4 (100%) identified turtles with shell length of less than 4 inches.,  , A total of 21 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Poona have been reported from 11 states. The 4 new cases are from Louisiana (1), Mississippi (1), and Tennessee (2)., Illness onset dates range from October 20, 2011 to July 2, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 70 years, with a median age of 3 years. Seventy percent of patients are female. None of the 5 patients for whom ethnicity information is available are Hispanic. Among 17 persons with available information, 5 (29%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after June 8, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 20 ill persons with available information, 16 (80%) reported contact with turtles in the week before becoming ill. Eleven persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; of these, 9 (82%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches. Among the 9 ill persons who had contact with small turtles, 4 (44%) were exposed to turtles from beach gift and souvenir shops and 3 (33%) reported buying turtles from a street vendor., In July 2012, two samples of turtle tank water from the home of an ill person in Mississippi yielded the outbreak strain, Salmonella Poona, strain A.,  , No new cases have been reported since the May 10, 2012 update. Among the 5 cases for whom ethnicity information is available, 3 (60%) are Hispanic.,  , A total of 50 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, Strain B, have been reported from 20 states. The 3 new cases are from Illinois (1), New Mexico (1), and Texas (1)., Illness onset dates range from June 21, 2011 to July 11, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 2 years. Fifty percent of patients are female. Ethnicity information was reported for 18 patients; of these, 8 (44%) are Hispanic. Among 31 persons with available information, 9 (29%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after July 3, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 33 ill persons with available information, 21 (64%) reported contact with turtles in the week before becoming ill. Nine ill persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; 8 (89%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches.,  , No new cases have been reported since the June 26, 2012 update. Ethnicity information is extremely limited for cases in this outbreak; the single case for whom ethnicity was reported is not Hispanic., , Contact with reptiles (such as turtles, snakes, and lizards) and amphibians (such as frogs and toads) can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Small turtles, with a shell length of less than 4 inches, are a well-known source of human Salmonella infections, especially among young children. Because of this risk, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has banned the sale and distribution of these turtles since 1975. Amphibians and reptiles can carry Salmonella germs and still appear healthy and clean. Salmonella germs are shed in their droppings and can easily contaminate their bodies and anything in areas where these animals live. Reptiles and amphibians that live in tanks or aquariums can contaminate the water with germs, which can spread to people., CDC continues to collaborate with public health officials in multiple states and the FDA to investigate 6 overlapping, multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to exposure to turtles or their environments (e.g., water from a turtle habitat). Because the majority of ill persons who reported contact with small turtles purchased the turtles from a street vendor, it is difficult to determine the original source of the turtles., The 6 multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to small turtles are numbered in the order in which they were identified. The details of each investigation are described below.,  , A total of 62 individuals infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain A, and Salmonella Newport, strain A, have been reported from 15 states. One ill person infected with Salmonella Newport was included in the case count based on epidemiologic and laboratory evidence linking them with this outbreak. The 7 new cases are from California (3), New Mexico (1), Nevada (1), and Texas (2)., Illness onset dates range from August 3, 2011 to May 24, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 8 years. Sixty-one percent of patients are female. Among 44 persons with available information, 10 (23%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after April 24, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 47 ill persons for whom information is available, 36 (77%) reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Twenty-six persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; of these, 25 (96%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches. Among those reporting small turtles, 10 (45%) of the 22 with information available were exposed to turtles purchased from a street vendor. Of the 11 ill persons who reported the type of turtle they had contact with, 10 (91%) reported contact with red-eared slider turtles., Salmonella Newport, strain A, was isolated from turtle tank water from the household of an ill person infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain A.,  , A total of 11 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain A, have been reported from 8 states. The 2 new cases are from New York (1) and Pennsylvania (1)., Illness onset dates range from December 9, 2011 to May 29, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 90 years, with a median age of 16 years. Seventy-three percent of patients are female. Among 10 persons with available information, 3 (30%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 22, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported.,  , A total of 17 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Poona have been reported from 9 states. The 2 new cases are from Tennessee (1) and Texas (1)., Illness onset dates range from October 20, 2011 to April 6, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 70 years, with a median age of 3 years. Sixty-nine percent of patients are female. Among 12 persons with available information, 4 (33%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 2, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., In May 2012, two samples of turtle tank water from the home of an ill person in New York yielded the outbreak strain Salmonella Poona, strain A.,  , No new cases have been reported since the prior update on May 10, 2012. Illnesses that occurred after June 9, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., In May 2012, turtle tank water obtained in the home of two ill persons from the same Nevada household yielded the outbreak strain, Salmonella Sandiego, strain B.,  , A total of 47 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B, have been reported from 18 states. The 8 new cases are from Alabama (1), Arizona (1), California (2), Nevada (1), South Carolina (1), Tennessee (1), and Texas (1)., Illness onset dates range from June 21, 2011 to June 16, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 86 years, with a median age of 2 years. Forty-nine percent of patients are female. Among 30 persons with available information, 9 (30%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after May 26, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 30 ill persons with available information, 19 (63%) reported contact with turtles in the week before becoming ill. Seven ill persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; all 7 of these persons (100%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches. Four (57%) of the 7 ill persons who had contact with small turtles reported buying their turtles from a street vendor.,  , As of June 25, 2012, a total of 6 individuals infected with Salmonella Poona have been reported from 3 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Arizona (1), Pennsylvania (4), and Texas (1)., Illness onset dates range from April 1, 2012 to May 26, 2012. Infected individuals range in age from less than 1 year to 74 years, with a median age of 8 years. Fifty percent of patients are female. The 1 patient with available information has been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Among the 4 ill persons with information available, 3 (75%) reported exposure to turtles before they became ill. Three ill persons reported the size of the turtle they had contact with, and 3 (100%) described turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches. Three ill persons who had contact with small turtles reported where they purchased the turtles, and 3 (100%) purchased the turtles from a street vendor., In May 2012, samples of turtle tank water from a pet store where two ill persons from the same Pennsylvania household purchased small turtles yielded the outbreak strain, Salmonella Poona, strain B. Also in May 2012, Salmonella Poona, strain B (the Outbreak 6 strain) was identified in turtle tank water from a pet store where a Delaware person infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B (the Outbreak 5 strain) had purchased small turtles., Illnesses that occurred after June 1, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., , Contact with reptiles (such as turtles, snakes, and lizards) and amphibians (such as frogs and toads) can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Small turtles, with a shell length of less than 4 inches, are a well-known source of human Salmonella infections, especially among young children. Because of this risk, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has banned the sale and distribution of these turtles since 1975. Amphibians and reptiles can carry Salmonella germs and still appear healthy and clean. Salmonella germs are shed in their droppings and can easily contaminate their bodies and anything in areas where these animals live. Reptiles and amphibians that live in tanks or aquariums can contaminate the water with germs, which can spread to people., CDC continues to collaborate with public health officials in multiple states and the FDA to investigate 5 overlapping, multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to exposure to turtles or their environments (e.g., water from a turtle habitat). Because the majority of ill persons who reported contact with small turtles purchased the turtles from a street vendor, it is difficult to determine the original source of the turtles., The 5 multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to small turtles are numbered in the order in which they were identified. The details of each investigation are described below.,  , A total of 55 individuals infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain A have been reported from 13 states. The 5 new cases are from Illinois (1), New Jersey (1), New York (1), Pennsylvania (1), and South Carolina (1)., Illnesses began between August 3, 2011 and April 16, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 to 86 years, with a median age of 7 years. Sixty-two percent of patients are female. Among 39 persons with available information, 10 (25%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after March 19, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 41 ill persons for whom information is available, 32 (78%) reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Twenty-two persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; of these, 21 (95%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches. Among those reporting small turtles, 8 (42%) of the 19 with information available were exposed to turtles purchased from a street vendor. Of the 9 ill persons who reported the type of turtle they had contact with, 8 (89%) reported red-eared slider turtles., In March 2012, samples of turtle tank water and turtles from the homes of 2 ill persons in New York yielded the outbreak strain, Salmonella Sandiego, strain A.,  , No new cases have been reported since the March 30, 2012 investigation announcement. Among the 9 cases, 3 (33%) have been hospitalized. Illnesses that occurred after March 28, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 5 ill persons who reported contact with turtles before becoming ill, 3 (63%) described the size of the turtle they had contact with. All 3 (100%) identified turtles with shell length of less than 4 inches., In March 2012, one sample of turtle tank water from the home of a person in New York who was infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain A yielded 2 outbreak strains. These strains were Salmonella Pomona, strain A and Salmonella Sandiego, strain A. This suggests that the turtles causing Outbreak 1 and Outbreak 2 may originate from a common source.,  , A total of 15 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Poona have been reported from 8 states. The 3 new cases are from Alabama (1), New York (1), and Texas (1)., Among persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from October 20, 2011 to April 6, 2012. Ill persons range in age from less than 1 year to 70 years, with a median age of 3 years. Sixty-seven percent of patients are female. Among 11 persons with available information, 3 (27%) reported being hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after March 18, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., Among the 14 ill persons with available information, 12 (86%) reported contact with turtles in the week before becoming ill. Eight persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle; of these, 6 (75%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches. Three (50%) of the 6 ill persons who had contact with small turtles reported buying their turtles from a street vendor. Of the 8 ill persons who could recall the type of turtle with which they had contact, 7 (88%) reported red-eared slider turtles.,  , As of May 8, 2012, a total of 6 individuals infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain B have been reported from 3 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Colorado (3), Nevada (2), and Texas (1)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between February 25 and April 27, 2012. Infected individuals range in age from less than 1 year old to 65 years old, and the median age is 17 years. Fifty percent of patients are female. Among the 6 ill persons, 1 (17%) has been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with turtles and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Four (67%) of 6 ill persons interviewed reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Four persons who reported contact with turtles also reported the size of the turtle, 4 (100%) reported a turtle with a shell length of less than 4 inches and 4 (100%) identified red-eared slider turtles. Four ill persons who reported contact with small turtles also reported where the turtle was purchased. Two purchased turtles from pet stores, one purchased a turtle from a street vendor, and 1 purchased a turtle from a flea market., In April 2012, one sample of water from a turtle habitat associated with an ill person in Colorado who was infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain B was tested. This sample yielded the outbreak strain, Salmonella Sandiego, strain B., Illnesses that occurred after April 20, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported.,  , As of May 8, 2012, a total of 39 individuals infected with Salmonella Pomona, strain B have been reported from 16 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Alaska (2), Arizona (1), California (9), Colorado (2), Delaware (3), Georgia (2), Michigan (1), Nevada (2), New York (1), Ohio (2), Oregon (1), Pennsylvania (1), South Carolina (2), Texas (7), Virginia (2), and West Virginia (1)., Illness onset dates range from June 21, 2011 to March 30, 2012. Infected individuals range in age from less than 1 year to 83 years, with a median age of 1 year. Fifty-four percent of patients are male. Among the 20 patients with available information, 2 (10%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., Among the 19 ill persons with information available, 13 (68%) reported exposure to turtles before they became ill. Five ill persons reported the size of the turtle they had contact with, and all 5 (100%) described turtles with a shell length of less than 4 inches. Three ill persons who had contact with small turtles reported where they purchased the turtles, and 3 (100%) purchased the turtles from a street vendor., In March 2012, samples from a turtle tank were collected from the home of an ill person in New Mexico infected with Salmonella Sandiego, strain A (the Outbreak 1 strain). Samples yielded Salmonella Pomona, strain B (the Outbreak 5 strain). This suggests that the turtles causing Outbreak 1 and Outbreak 5 may originate from a common source., Illnesses that occurred after April 3, 2012, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., , A total of 50 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Sandiego have been reported from 10 states. The 5 new ill persons have been reported from California (4) and Minnesota (1) and have onset dates in August 2011. The Salmonella Sandiego outbreak definition was expanded to include cases whose illness began in August 2011, because new epidemiologic evidence suggested that the outbreak began earlier than what was previously reported. Twenty-eight (82%) of 34 ill persons interviewed reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Of the 19 ill persons who could recall the size of the turtles with which they had contact, 18 (95%) identified turtles less than four inches in size. Of the 6 ill persons who could recall the type of turtle with which they had contact, 5 (83%) identified red-eared slider turtles., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between August 3, 2011 and March 11, 2012. Infected individuals range in age from less than one year old to 86 years old, and 50% of ill persons are 8 years of age or younger. Fifty-eight percent of patients are female. Among the 32 patients with available information, 8 (25%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., In March 2012, swabs taken from the turtle tank of a Virginia case yielded the outbreak strain.,  , A total of 13 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Poona have been reported from 7 states. The 1 new ill person has been reported from Texas. At this time, interview information is not available for this person., , CDC is collaborating with public health officials in multiple states to investigate three overlapping, multistate outbreaks of human Salmonella infections linked to exposure to turtles or their environments (e.g., water from a turtle habitat). The first is an outbreak of human Salmonella Sandiego infections, the second is an outbreak of human Salmonella Pomona infections, and the third is an outbreak of human Salmonella Poona infections. These are rare types of Salmonella. The Salmonella Sandiego and Salmonella Pomona outbreaks have similar geographic distributions, with cases occurring in the Northeast and Southwest. The Salmonella Poona outbreak has a slightly different geographic distribution, with cases occurring in the Midwest and Southwest. Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases of illness that may be part of these outbreaks. In PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC, DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria are obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak., These outbreaks can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after January 26, 2012 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Salmonella Outbreak Investigations: Timeline for Reporting Cases for more details., Contact with reptiles (such as turtles, snakes, and lizards) and amphibians (such as frogs and toads) can be a source of human Salmonella infections. Small turtles, with a shell length of less than 4 inches, are a well-known source of human Salmonella infections, especially among young children. Because of this risk, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has banned the sale and distribution of these turtles since 1975. Amphibians and reptiles can carry Salmonella germs and still appear healthy and clean. Salmonella germs are shed in their droppings and can easily contaminate their bodies and anything in areas where these animals live. Reptiles and amphibians that live in tanks or aquariums can contaminate the water with germs, which can spread to people., As of March 26, 2012, a total of 45 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Sandiego have been reported from 10 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: California (3), Georgia (1), Massachusetts (2), Maryland (5), New Jersey (5), New Mexico (3), New York (18), North Carolina (1), Pennsylvania (6), and Virginia (1)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between September 1, 2011 and March 16, 2012. Infected individuals range in age from less than one year old to 86 years old, and 50% of ill persons are 9 years of age or younger. Fifty-eight percent of patients are female. Among the 25 patients with available information, 7 (28%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with turtles and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Nineteen (76%) of 25 ill persons interviewed reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Of the 13 ill persons who could recall the size of the turtles with which they had contact, 12 (92%) identified turtles less than four inches in size. Of the 6 ill persons who could recall the type of turtle with which they had contact, 5 (83%) identified red-eared slider turtles., In February 2012, one sample of turtle tank water from an ill person’s home in Pennsylvania yielded the outbreak strain.,  , As of March 26, 2012, a total of 9 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Pomona have been reported from 8 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: California (2), Massachusetts (1), Maryland (1), New Jersey (1), New York (1), Pennsylvania (1), Texas (1), and Vermont (1)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between December 9, 2011 and February 6, 2012. Infected individuals range in age from less than one year old to 90 years old, and 50% of ill persons are 4 years of age or younger. Seventy-five percent of patients are female. Among the 8 patients with available information, 2 (25%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with turtles and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Five (63%) of eight ill persons interviewed reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Of the 2 ill persons who could recall the size of the turtles with which they had contact, 2 (100%) identified turtles less than four inches in size., In January 2012, one sample of turtle tank water from the home of 2 ill persons in the same California household yielded the outbreak strain.,  , As of March 26, 2012, a total of 12 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Poona have been reported from 7 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state is as follows: Arizona (2), California (3), Indiana (1), Kentucky (1), Michigan (1), New York (2), and Texas (2)., Among the persons who reported the date they became ill, illnesses began between October 20, 2011 and February 18, 2012. Infected individuals range in age from less than one year old to 70 years old, and 50% of ill persons are 4 years of age or younger. Sixty-seven percent of patients are female. Among the 7 patients with available information, 2 (29%) have been hospitalized. No deaths have been reported., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about contact with turtles and foods consumed during the week before becoming ill. Nine (90%) of 10 ill persons interviewed reported contact with turtles before becoming ill. Of the five ill persons who could recall the size of the turtles with which they had contact, four (80%) described turtles less than four inches in size. Of the 7 ill persons who could recall the type of turtle with which they had contact, 7 (100%) identified red-eared slider turtles., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '954f4bfb2484b6435815441a3b5f98ffeeb9b692249b01a6e90335c9f52d324b', 'headline': 'CDC - January 19, 2012 - Salmonella Enteritidis Infections Linked to Restaurant Chain A', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 31, 3, 14, 58, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/restaurant-enteriditis/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted January 19, 2012, This outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page and the CDC Vital Signs Web Page., CDC collaborated with public health officials in multiple states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Salmonella Enteritidis infections which was associated with eating food from a Mexican-style fast food restaurant chain, Restaurant Chain A. Investigative efforts were unable to identify a specific food associated with illness, but data indicate that contamination likely occurred before the product reached Restaurant Chain A locations. This outbreak now appears to be over., Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Salmonella bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. The PFGE pattern in the outbreak has been seen before in PulseNet, and in the past typically caused 2-3 cases per month., A widely distributed contaminated food product might cause illnesses in a specific region and across the United States. As of January 19, 2012, a total of 68 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis have been reported from 10 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state with the outbreak strain was as follows: Texas (43), Oklahoma (16), Kansas (2), Iowa (1), Michigan (1), Missouri (1), Nebraska (1), New Mexico (1), Ohio (1), and Tennessee (1)., Among persons for whom information was available, illnesses began on or after October 13, 2011. Ill persons range in age from &lt;1 to 79 years, and the median age was 25 years old. Fifty-four percent of patients were female. Thirty-one percent of patients were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epi curve. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of Salmonella for more details., Collaborative investigative efforts of state, local, and federal public health agencies indicated that eating food from a Mexican-style fast food restaurant chain, Restaurant Chain A, was associated with some illnesses. Public health officials in multiple states and CDC conducted interviews with ill persons to ask questions about exposures during the days before becoming ill. Among 52 ill persons for whom information is available, 60% reported eating at Restaurant Chain A in the week before illness onset. Ill persons reported eating at 18 different locations of Restaurant Chain A in the week before becoming ill. A total of 3 locations were identified where more than one ill person reported eating in the week before becoming ill. This finding indicates that contamination likely occurred before the product reached Restaurant Chain A locations., CDC and public health officials in multiple states conducted an epidemiologic study by comparing foods eaten by 48 ill and 103 well persons. Analysis of this study indicates that eating at Mexican-style fast food Restaurant Chain A was associated with illness. Ill persons (62%) were significantly more likely than well persons (17%) to report eating at Restaurant Chain A in the week before illness. No specific food item or ingredient was found to be associated with illness due to common ingredients being used together in many menu items. However, among ill persons eating at Restaurant Chain A, 90% reported eating lettuce, 94% reported eating ground beef, 77% reported eating cheese, and 35% reported eating tomatoes. The epidemic curve seen in the outbreak is consistent with those observed in past produce-related outbreaks—with a sharp increase and decline of ill persons that spanned one to two months. Ground beef was an unlikely source due to the handling and cooking processes used by Restaurant Chain A., FDA used information on supply truck delivery routes and schedules to try to identify potential foods associated with reports of illness. FDA collected and analyzed paper and electronic shipping records of suspected foods and various other food products shipped by a food distribution center to Restaurant Chain A locations. After reviewing these records, FDA found locations where more than one ill person reported eating in the week before becoming ill were on two separate trucking routes. Comparison of records from suspected foods received by these locations revealed no commonalities across a variety of suppliers. Despite these additional efforts, no further information was available to assist in identifying a single food item., Restaurant Chain A, as well as their food suppliers and distributors, were very cooperative in providing extensive information to public health officials as various leads were explored., This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, Salmonella is still an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., *n=68 for whom information was reported as of January 17, 2012, As of January 19, 2012, a total of 68 individuals infected with the outbreak strain of Salmonella Enteritidis have been reported from 10 states. The number of ill persons identified in each state with the outbreak strain was as follows: Texas (43), Oklahoma (16), Kansas (2), Iowa (1), Michigan (1), Missouri (1), Nebraska (1), New Mexico (1), Ohio (1), and Tennessee (1)., *n=68 for whom information was reported as of January 17, 2012, Most persons infected with Salmonella bacteria develop diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps 12 to 72 hours after infection. The illness usually lasts 4 to 7 days, and most persons recover without treatment. However, in some persons, the diarrhea may be so severe that the patient needs to be hospitalized. Salmonella infection may spread from the intestines to the bloodstream and then to other body sites and can cause death unless the person is treated promptly with antibiotics. Older adults, infants, and those with impaired immune systems are more likely to have a severe illness from Salmonella infection. More information about Salmonella, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection with Salmonella in general, can be found on the CDC Salmonella Web Page., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '0470533b3d4be5cb09a298934bf0e1f132565d62e079f1b537a3a692f387aec3', 'headline': 'Salmonella Atlas | Reports and Publications | Salmonella | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 3, 10, 2, 7, 9, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/reportspubs/salmonella-atlas/index.html', 'main_text': 'An Atlas of Salmonella in the United States, 1968-2011 pdf icon[PDF – 248 pages] summarizes 42 years of laboratory-confirmed surveillance data on Salmonella isolates (pure strains separated from specimens with more than one bacteria) from humans., It includes:, This is the first time CDC has posted these data online in a downloadable format in its entirety or in 32 individual Salmonella serotype reports., , Scientists classify types of Salmonella into serotypes by identifying the structures on the bacteria’s surfaces. Since the 1960s, public health scientists in the US have used serotyping to link Salmonella cases with similar bacteria and likely to be related. Serotyping has been the core of public health monitoring of Salmonella infections since then. Now, scientists also use DNA testing to further divide each serotype into more subtypes. More about Serotyping, , , , , CDC publishes annual summaries of national surveillance data for Salmonella. These summaries are available for 2007 through the most recent year of published data., , , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '01cef9aab616f874554c8e6b23b9c2205e2e2c6be39ee929a37c67a625a01f8f', 'headline': 'Reports and Publications for Salmonella', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 3, 4, 7, 8, 13, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/salmonella/reportspubs/index.html', 'main_text': 'CDC currently has six surveillance systems for obtaining information about Salmonella. They serve different purposes and provide information on various features of the organism’s epidemiology, such as number of outbreaks, antimicrobial-resistant infections, and subtypes., CDC has posted a 248 page Salmonella Atlas 1968-2011. The first-of-its-kind report chronicles over 40 years of laboratory-confirmed surveillance data on 32 Salmonella serotypes and includes analyses by age, sex, season, and geography, down to the county level. Learn more about the Salmonella Atlas., The Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) series is often called “the voice of CDC.” The MMWR series is the agency’s primary vehicle for scientific publication of timely, reliable, authoritative, accurate, objective, and useful public health information and recommendations., CDC provides select communication materials that support general prevention efforts aimed at reducing Salmonella infections: CDC Salmonella Communication Materials., , , , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '3ec5972477a7fa79f1d1384377473e1f89c67e453a7c537b6774ed84893aea83', 'headline': 'Listeria Outbreak Linked to Hispanic-Style Fresh and Soft Cheeses | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 2, 2, 14, 40, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/hispanic-soft-cheese-02-21/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted March 1, 2021, Queso fresco, El Abuelito queso fresco, On February 27, El Abuelito Cheese Inc. recalled quesillo and requeson cheesesexternal icon, in addition to the previously recalled queso fresco cheesesexternal icon. These cheeses were made or packed at the same facility as the contaminated queso fresco., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '39266ef351470265e42ddd664a9787e5b296e39f4099307167d99be8c411f519', 'headline': 'Listeria Outbreaks  | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 2, 24, 8, 19, 52, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/index.html', 'main_text': 'When two or more people get the same illness from the same contaminated food or drink, the event is called a foodborne disease outbreak. The list on this page primarily represents multistate foodborne outbreak investigations involving Listeria in which CDC was the lead public health agency. CDC’s online data tool, NORS Dashboard, contains a more complete listing of Listeria outbreaks reported to CDC since 1998., Public health officials investigate outbreaks to control them, so more people do not get sick, and to learn how to prevent similar outbreaks from happening in the future., , , , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '3ec5972477a7fa79f1d1384377473e1f89c67e453a7c537b6774ed84893aea83', 'headline': 'Listeria Outbreak Linked to Hispanic-Style Fresh and Soft Cheeses | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 2, 2, 14, 40, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/hispanic-soft-cheese-02-21/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted March 1, 2021, Queso fresco, El Abuelito queso fresco, On February 27, El Abuelito Cheese Inc. recalled quesillo and requeson cheesesexternal icon, in addition to the previously recalled queso fresco cheesesexternal icon. These cheeses were made or packed at the same facility as the contaminated queso fresco., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'df823fa651f58d7474f06629f2022a9d3e84314728022efe04d89c31fadfd664', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Deli Meats | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 2, 2, 2, 54, 49, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/delimeat-10-20/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted January 28, 2021 at 4:00 PM ET, This outbreak is over. Even when there are no ongoing outbreaks, people who are at higher risk for getting sick with Listeria should avoid eating deli meats, unless heated to an internal temperature of 165°F or until steaming hot., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) investigated a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections linked to deli meats., , , , You are at higher risk for getting sick with Listeria if you are pregnant, aged 65 or older, or have a weakened immune system due to medical conditions such as cancer, diabetes, liver or kidney disease, alcoholism, or HIV. Treatments that make it more difficult for the body to fight off illness, such as steroids and chemotherapy, also can increase the chance of Listeria infection. If you are not in these groups, you are unlikely to get sick from Listeria., Even when there are no ongoing outbreaks:, , Always follow these food safety steps when handling deli meats:, , Follow USDA-FSIS best practicesexternal icon for controlling Listeria contamination in deli areas., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) investigated a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting was performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of January 26, 2021, a total of 12 people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes were reported from four states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Listeria samples from ill people were collected from August 6, 2020, to October 30, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from 40 to 89 years, with a median age of 81 years, and 83% were female. All 12 people were hospitalized, and one death was reported from Florida., Epidemiologic evidence showed that deli meat was the likely source of this outbreak., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people about the foods they ate in the month before they became ill. Of the 11 people interviewed, all reported eating Italian-style deli meats, such as salami, mortadella, and prosciutto. They reported purchasing prepackaged deli meats and meats sliced at deli counters at various locations., USDA-FSIS and state officials reviewed records collected from stores where ill people purchased deli meats to find a common supplier of deli meats. They also tested deli meat products that ill people reported eating. However, they did not find a common supplier or a specific type of deli meat as the source of this outbreak., As of January 28, 2021, this outbreak is over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '75e52eb82dfc9968b9ab68ce5cfaa20fab42d365b0c518b63a1dbb6d477dbe5e', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Enoki Mushrooms  | Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Enoki Mushrooms | March 2020 | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 6, 25, 5, 13, 15, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/enoki-mushrooms-03-20/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted June 9, 2020 at 11:00 AM ET, For information in Korean (한국어) or Chinese (简体中文), visit FDA’s outbreak investigation pageexternal icon., This outbreak appears to be over. However, Listeria remains an important cause of serious, life-threatening illness in the United States. For steps that you can take to reduce your risk of infection, visit CDC’s Preventing Listeriosis webpage., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections linked to enoki mushrooms., , , Recalled enoki mushrooms from H&amp;C Food Inc.,external icon Guan’s Mushroom Co.,external icon and Sun Hong Foods, Inc.external icon are past their shelf life and should not be available for sale., , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections linked to enoki mushrooms., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 36 people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes were reported from 17 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Listeria specimens from ill people were collected from November 23, 2016, to December 13, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 to 96 years, with a median age of 67. Fifty-eight percent of ill people were female. Of 33 ill people with information available, 31 hospitalizations were reported. Four deaths were reported from California (2), Hawaii, and New Jersey. Six cases were pregnancy-associated, with two resulting in fetal loss., Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory evidence showed that enoki mushrooms supplied by Green Co. LTD, located in the Republic of Korea, were the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the month before they became ill. Twelve out of 22 (55%) reported eating mushrooms, including enoki, portobello, white, button, cremini, wood ear, maitake, and oyster., FDA and state officials collected enoki mushrooms for testing. The Michigan Department of Agriculture and Rural Development collected enoki mushrooms from a grocery store where an ill person shopped and identified the outbreak strain in two samples. These mushrooms were labeled as “Product of Korea” and were distributed by Sun Hong Foods, Inc. On March 9, 2020, Sun Hong Foods, Inc. recalledexternal icon enoki mushrooms. The California Department of Public Health collected enoki mushrooms from grocery stores and identified the outbreak strain in one sample. These mushrooms were labeled as “Product of Korea” and were distributed by Guan’s Mushroom Co. On March 23, 2020, Guan’s Mushroom Co. recalledexternal icon enoki mushrooms. FDA collected samples of enoki mushrooms for testing at import from Green Co. LTD of the Republic of Korea. On April 6, 2020, results showed that two samples yielded the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes. As a result, on April 7, 2020, FDA placed Green Co. LTD on Import Alertexternal icon and H&amp;C Foods Inc.external icon recalled enoki mushrooms supplied by Green Co. LTD., On March 18, 2020, the Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety published its investigation findings and steps it will take to prevent future illnesses. It found Listeria monocytogenes in enoki mushrooms produced by two firms in the Republic of Korea., Recalled enoki mushrooms are past their shelf life and should not be available for sale. As of June 9, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'ef4d85e34666ad8756bf504911dba71165da1069bd67cb0c379311d765aa3c87', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Hard-boiled Eggs  | Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Hard-boiled Eggs | December 2019 | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 3, 4, 6, 9, 8, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/eggs-12-19/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted March 4, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over, but recalled hard-boiled egg products could still be in refrigerators. If you have these products at home, don’t eat them. Visit the FDA websiteexternal icon for a full list of recalled products., CDC, several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections linked to hard-boiled eggs produced by Almark Foods of Gainesville, Georgia., , , , , CDC, several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)external icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections linked to hard-boiled eggs., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were likely to share a common source of infection., A total of eight people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes were reported from five states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Listeria specimens from ill people were collected from April 10, 2017, to December 7, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 to 82 years, with a median age of 71. Sixty-two percent of ill people were male. Of seven ill people with information available, five hospitalizations were reported. One death was reported from Texas. One illness was reported in a newborn who was infected with Listeria while the mother was pregnant, but the newborn survived., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that hard-boiled eggs produced at the Almark Foods Gainesville, Georgia, processing facility were the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the month before they became ill. Of the six people for whom information was available, five (83%) reported eating products containing eggs. Five of these people reported eating hard-boiled eggs sold in packages, in prepared salads sold in stores, and in salads at restaurants., FDA found Listeria bacteria in an environmental sample taken at the Almark Foods Gainesville, Georgia, processing facility during an FDA inspection conducted in December 2019. WGS showed that the bacteria in the environmental sample was closely related genetically to bacteria from ill people., On December 23, 2019, Almark Foods recalledexternal icon all hard-boiled and peeled eggs in pails produced at its Gainesville, Georgia, facility. Retail products were sold under many brand names. Visit the FDA website for a full list of recalled productsexternal icon. Restaurants and retailers should not serve or sell recalled hard-boiled egg products. Consumers who have any recalled egg products in their homes should not eat them and throw them away., As of March 4, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '93213b1b865b49d51719b0cf7dfc2c9cd120b913b6cb1e44387db1bd744d6ca7', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Listeria Infections  | Multistate Outbreak of Listeria Monocytogenes Infections | August 2019 | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 11, 7, 4, 23, 36, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/monocytogenes-08-19/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted November 7, 2019 at 1:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. CDC, several states, and federal partners investigated a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections. A single, common source of infections was not identified. Learn more about how you can take steps to prevent Listeria infection., , , Listeria is most likely to sicken pregnant women and their newborns, adults aged 65 or older, and people with weakened immune systems. People who have underlying medical conditions or take medicines (like steroids or chemotherapy) that lower the body’s ability to fight germs and sickness have weakened immune systems., Some foods are more likely to contain Listeria. People at higher risk for infection should:, , CDC, several states, and federal partners investigated a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections. The outbreak investigation is over and did not identify a specific food item, grocery store, food processor, or restaurant chain as the source of infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of November 7, 2019, a total of 24 people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogeneswere reported from 13 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Listeria specimens were collected from ill people from July 20, 2017, to August 1, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from 35 to 92 years, with a median age of 72. Sixty-three percent of ill people were female. Of 23 ill people with information available, 22 hospitalizations were reported. Two deaths were reported. No additional ill people were reported after the initial investigation notice on August 23, 2019., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to ask about what they ate and other exposures they had before their illness started. CDC analyzed the interview data but did not identify a common food or exposure among ill people., The Public Health Agency of Canada also investigated an outbreak of Listeria monocytogenesexternal icon infections in several Canadian provinces linked to cooked diced chicken. Whole genome sequencing showed that the type of Listeria making people sick in Canada was closely related genetically to the Listeria making people sick in the United States, but a source of the infections in the United States was not identified., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'd8f4154e570f17bcb847ea5396ccd425938d26478b31efc5247bd50b93d3450d', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Deli-Sliced Meats and Cheeses  | Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Deli-Sliced Products | April 2019 | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 10, 3, 3, 9, 38, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/deliproducts-04-19/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted September 26, 2019 at 12:00 PM ET, This investigation is over. This outbreak is a reminder that deli products, such as sliced meats and cheeses, can have Listeria bacteria. People who are at higher risk for Listeria infection should avoid eating hot dogs, lunch meats, cold cuts, and other deli meats, unless they are heated to an internal temperature of 165°F or until steaming hot just before serving., CDC and several states, along with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, investigated a multistate outbreak of Listeria infections linked to deli-sliced meats and cheeses. A single, common supplier of deli products was not identified., , , , People who are at higher risk for Listeria infection should avoid eating lunch meats, cold cuts, or other deli meats, unless they are heated to an internal temperature of 165°F or until steaming hot just before serving. , , CDC and several states, along with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), investigated a multistate outbreak of Listeria infections linked to deli-sliced meats and cheeses., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS performed on Listeria isolated from ill people in this outbreak showed that they were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of September 26, 2019, a total of 10 people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes were reported from 5 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Listeria specimens from ill people were collected from November 13, 2016 to June 20, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from 40 to 88 years, with a median age of 64. Fifty percent were female. All 10 people (100%) were hospitalized. One death was reported from Michigan., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that deli-sliced meats and cheeses might have been contaminated with Listeria monocytogenes and made people sick., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the four weeks before they became ill. Of 8 people interviewed, 5 (63%) reported eating products sliced at a deli counter, including meats and cheeses. Delis where ill people shopped served many brands of products and there was limited information available about the brands ill people bought., USDA-FSIS and FDA evaluated records collected by state inspectors from delis where ill people ate to determine whether a common meat or cheese product was served at the delis. The analysis of the available documentation did not identify a common product., The outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes was identified in samples from meat sliced at a deli, and from deli counters in multiple retail locations in New York and Rhode Island. WGS showed that the Listeria from these samples was closely related genetically to the Listeria from ill people. This result provided more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating deli-sliced products. The investigation did not identify a common product that was sliced or prepared in the delis., This outbreak is a reminder that deli products, such as sliced meats and cheeses, can have Listeria bacteria. People who are at higher risk for Listeria infections should avoid eating lunch meats, cold cuts, or other deli meats, unless they are heated to an internal temperature of 165°F or until steaming hot just before serving., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '4e18ae81409f1e148c31df791cf99065dcd973621db0babd2d9a275bb77e4bf0', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Pork Products  | Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Pork Products | November 2018 | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 29, 6, 21, 48, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/porkproducts-11-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted January 29, 2019 at 1:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. In general, people who are at higher risk for Listeria infection should avoid eating hot dogs, lunch meats, cold cuts, other deli meats (such as bologna), or fermented or dry sausages unless they are heated to an internal temperature of 165°F or until steaming hot just before serving. Learn more about how you can take steps to prevent Listeria infection., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) investigated a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections linked to pork products produced by Long Phung Food Products. As of January 29, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., , Recall, Advice, , , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) investigated a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting was performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people using a technique called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS performed on bacteria isolated from ill people showed that they were closely relatedly genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of January 29, 2019, four people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes were reported from four states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Listeria specimens from ill people were collected from July 1, 2017, to October 24, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from 35 to 84 years, with a median age of 60 years. All four ill people were female, and all four ill people (100%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that pork products from 165368 C. Corporation of Houston Texas, doing business as Long Phung Food Products, were a likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the 4 weeks before they became ill. Four people were interviewed and all four reported eating Asian-style foods. Three ill people reported shopping at stores where Long Phung Food Products were sold., WGS results of samples collected at the Long Phung Food Products facility showed that Listeria strains identified in the facility were closely related genetically to Listeria strains from ill people. These results provide more evidence that ill people became sick from eating contaminated pork products., On November 20, 2018, 165368 C. Corporation, doing business as Long Phung Food Products, recalledExternal ready-to-eat pork products because they might have been contaminated with Listeria bacteria. Recalled pork products were produced from May 21, 2018, through November 16, 2018. Consumers should return them to the store for a refund or throw them away. Restaurants and retailers should not serve or sell recalled Long Phung Food products., As of January 29, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'e1085fd2057b330a97a6a3092a15820fb97ac083ee4cd32cbf1c410a5f57e327', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Deli Ham (Final Update)  | Outbreak of Listeria Infections Linked to Deli Ham | October 2018 | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2018, 12, 18, 7, 57, 42, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/countryham-10-18/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted December 18, 2018 at 3:30 PM ET, CDC and public health and regulatory officials in several states investigated a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections linked to ready-to-eat deli ham produced by Johnston County Hams, Inc. The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS) monitored this outbreak. This outbreak appears to be over., , , , , , CDC and public health and regulatory officials in several states investigated a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections. The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS)External monitored this outbreak. This outbreak appears to be over., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting was performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people by using a technique called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS performed on bacteria isolated from ill people showed that they were closely relatedly genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of December 18, 2018, four people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes were reported from two states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Listeria specimens from ill people were collected from July 8, 2017, to August 11, 2018. Ill people range in age from 70 to 81 years, with a median age of 76 years. Fifty percent of ill people are female. All four ill people (100%) were hospitalized. One death was reported from Virginia., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicates that deli ham products from Johnston County Hams, Inc. in Smithfield, North Carolina were the likely source of the outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the four weeks before they became ill. Three people were interviewed and all three (100%) reported eating deli ham or other deli meat from a grocery store or restaurant., USDA-FSIS and state partners traced the source of the deli ham that ill people ate to Johnston County Hams, Inc. in Smithfield, North Carolina. The traceback investigation also showed Johnston County Hams products were served at an assisted living facility where the one ill person who could not be interviewed was a resident., During routine inspections, federal regulatory officials collected deli ham from the Johnston County Hams, Inc. facility in 2016 and in early 2018. Whole genome sequencing results showed that Listeria identified in the deli ham in both years was closely related genetically to Listeria from ill people. These results provide more evidence that ill people became sick from eating contaminated deli ham., On October 3, 2018, Johnston County Hams, Inc. recalled ready-to-eat deli ham products because they might be contaminated with Listeria bacteria. Recalled ham products were produced from April 3, 2017 through October 2, 2018. Return them to the store for a refund or throw them away. Restaurants and retailers should not serve or sell recalled Johnston County Hams products., As of December 18, 2018, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'bb40094dfaf78bde979b6e52c3cf6892f85024fc7da533cf29e65623fd7eaf7a', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Listeriosis Linked to Soft Raw Milk Cheese Made by Vulto Creamery | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2018, 12, 3, 4, 0, 25, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/soft-cheese-03-17/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted May 3, 2017 1:30 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, Listeria remains  an important cause of serious, life-threatening human illness in the United  States. For more information about Listeria and steps that people can  take to reduce their risk of infection, visit CDC’s Listeria webpage., , CDC collaborated with public health and regulatory officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Listeria causes a serious, life-threatening illness., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. Eight people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria were reported from four states. Since the initial announcement on March 9, two more ill people were reported from New York. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) performed on clinical isolates from all eight ill people showed that the isolates were closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship provided additional evidence that people in this outbreak became ill from a common source., Listeria specimens from ill people were collected from September 1, 2016 to March 13, 2017. Ill people ranged in age from less than one year to 89 years, with a median age of 52 years. Five of eight ill people were female. All eight (100%) ill people were hospitalized, including two people from Connecticut and Vermont who died. One of the illnesses was reported in a newborn., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that soft raw milk cheese made by Vulto Creamery of Walton, New York, was the likely source of this outbreak., State and local health departments interviewed ill people or their family members about the foods they ate or other exposures in the month before their illness started. Based on those interviews, eight (100%) of eight people ate a soft cheese. The ill resident of Florida reported traveling to New York state and eating soft cheese there before becoming ill. Available information indicated that cheese made by Vulto Creamery was for sale at stores where at least seven of the ill people bought cheese before getting sick., The Connecticut Department of Public Health collected leftover cheeses from the home of the deceased person in Connecticut. The outbreak strain of Listeria was identified in a leftover cheese that the family identified as Ouleout cheese from Vulto Creamery., The New York Division of Milk Control and Dairy Services collected three intact wheels of Ouleout cheese from Vulto Creamery. The outbreak strain of Listeria was identified in samples taken from the three wheels of cheese. On March 7, 2017, Vulto Creamery recalledExternal all lots of Ouleout, Miranda, Heinennellie, and Willowemoc soft wash-rind raw milk cheeses. On March 10, the company expanded the recall to include four other cheeses: Andes, Blue Blais, Hamden, and Walton Umber. The raw milk cheeses were distributed nationwide, with most sold in stores in the northeastern and Mid-Atlantic states; California; Chicago; Portland, Oregon; and Washington, D.C., This outbreak appears to be over. However, CDC recommends that consumers do not eat, restaurants do not serve, and retailers do not sell recalled raw milk cheeses made by Vulto Creamery., CDC is collaborating with public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., Six people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria have been reported from four states since September 1, 2016. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. WGS performed on clinical isolates from all six ill people shows that the isolates are closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship provides additional evidence that people in this outbreak became ill from a common source., Listeria specimens from ill people were collected from September 1, 2016 to January 22, 2017. Ill people range in age from less than one year to 89 years, with a median age of 55. Five of six ill people are female. All six (100%) ill people reported being hospitalized, and two people from Connecticut and Vermont died. One of the illnesses was reported in a newborn., The outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who were diagnosed each week. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicates that soft raw milk cheese made by Vulto Creamery of Walton, New York, is the likely source of this outbreak., State and local health departments interviewed ill people or their family members about the foods they may have eaten or other exposures in the month before their illness started. Six (100%) of six people reported eating a soft cheese. The ill resident of Florida reported traveling to New York State and eating soft cheese there before becoming ill. Available information indicates that cheese made by Vulto Creamery was for sale at stores where at least five of the ill people purchased cheese before becoming ill., The Connecticut Department of Public Health collected leftover cheeses from the deceased person’s home in Connecticut. The outbreak strain of Listeria was identified in a leftover cheese that the family identified as Ouleout cheese from Vulto Creamery., The New York Division of Milk Control and Dairy Services collected three intact wheels of Ouleout cheese from Vulto Creamery during a joint inspection with FDA. The outbreak strain of Listeria was identified in samples taken from the three wheels of cheese. On March 7, 2017, Vulto Creamery recalledExternal all lots of Ouleout, Miranda, Heinennellie, and Willowemoc soft wash-rind raw milk cheeses. The soft raw milk cheeses were distributed nationwide, with most being sold at retail locations in the northeastern and Mid-Atlantic States, California, Chicago, Portland, Oregon, and Washington, D.C., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. This investigation is ongoing, and updates will be provided when more information is available., , , , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '0614b8a7d14b5dd353c34d0c484d4ad43aeb1c903f0ab9a51c1ffc1201b05623', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Listeriosis Linked to Frozen Vegetables | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2018, 12, 3, 4, 1, 27, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/frozen-vegetables-05-16/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted July 15, 2016 1:45 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. However, people could continue to get sick because recalled products may still be in freezers and people who don’t know about the recalls could eat them. Retailers should not sell and consumers should not eat recalled products. Read the Recall and Advice to Consumers and Retailers., CDC collaborated with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External to investigate a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., A total of nine people infected with the outbreak strains of Listeria were reported from four states since September 13, 2013. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Listeria positive specimens were collected from September 13, 2013, to May 3, 2016. Three illnesses were reported in 2016. The remaining six illnesses reported during 2013-2015 were identified through a retrospective review of the PulseNet database. Ill people ranged in age from 56 to 91 years, with a median age of 76. Seventy-eight percent of ill people were female. All nine (100%) ill people were hospitalized, including three people who died. Listeriosis was considered to be a cause of death for one person in Connecticut. For the two deaths in Maryland and Washington, listeriosis was not considered to be a cause of death., The outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who were diagnosed each month. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that frozen vegetables produced by CRF Frozen Foods of Pasco, Washington and sold under various brand names were a likely source of illnesses in this outbreak., This outbreak was identified in March 2016. State and local health departments attempted to interview the ill people, a family member, or a caregiver for the ill person about the foods the ill person may have eaten in the month before the illness began. Four of nine ill people, or their caregiver, were interviewed using a questionnaire that asked about a variety of foods. Three of these four people reported buying and eating frozen vegetables in the month before illness began and two reported Organic by Nature brand frozen vegetables. The third ill person reported eating O Organic brand frozen vegetables. Both Organic by Nature and O Organic frozen vegetables are produced by CRF Frozen Foods., During the same time period, as part of a routine product-sampling program, the Ohio Department of Agriculture collected packages of frozen vegetable products from a retail location and isolated Listeria from True Goodness by Meijer brand frozen organic white sweet cut corn and from True Goodness by Meijer brand frozen organic petite green peas. Both products are produced by CRF Frozen Foods. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) showed that the Listeria isolate from the frozen corn was closely related genetically to eight bacterial isolates from ill people, and the Listeria isolate from the frozen peas was closely related genetically to one isolate from an ill person. This close genetic relationship provides additional evidence that some people in this outbreak became ill from eating frozen vegetables produced by CRF Frozen Foods., Also, FDA collected environmental samples from Oregon Potato Company, located in Pasco, Washington and isolated Listeria from these samples. WGS showed that the Listeria found in these environmental samples was closely related genetically to eight isolates from ill people in this outbreak. Based on this information, Oregon Potato Company voluntarily recalled wholesale onion products made in their facility, which led to multiple recalls of products sold at retail under many brand names that contained recalled onions., On April 23, 2016, CRF Frozen Foods recalled 11 frozen vegetable products because they may have been contaminated with Listeria. On May 2, 2016, CRF Frozen Foods expanded the initial recall to include all organic and traditional frozen vegetable and fruit products processed in its Pasco, Washington facility since May 1, 2014. More than 350 consumer products sold under 42 separate brands were recalled, as well as at least 100 other products from other companies that contained recalled ingredients from CRF Frozen Foods. State health departments collected recalled products from ill people in California and Idaho and isolated an outbreak strain of Listeria in these product samples. Recalled items were sold under various brand names, nationwide and in Canada. A full list of recalled products is available on the FoodSafety.gov websiteExternal. CDC recommends that consumers do not eat, and restaurants and retailers do not serve or sell, recalled organic and traditional frozen vegetables and fruit products and recalled products that contain these items., This outbreak investigation is over. However, people could continue to get sick because recalled products may still be in freezers and people who don’t know about the recalls could eat them. Retailers should not sell and consumers should not eat recalled products. Read the Recall and Advice to Consumers and Retailers., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External to investigate a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA “fingerprinting” on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., A total of eight people infected with the outbreak strains of Listeria have been reported from three states since September 13, 2013. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Listeria specimens were collected from September 13, 2013 to March 28, 2016. Two illnesses were reported in 2016. The remaining six illnesses reported during 2013-2015 were identified through a retrospective review of the PulseNet database. Ill people range in age from 56 years to 86, with a median age of 76. Seventy-five percent of ill people are female. All eight (100%) ill people were hospitalized, including one from Maryland and one from Washington who died, although listeriosis was not considered to be a cause of death for either person., The outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who were diagnosed each month. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence available at this time indicates that frozen vegetables produced by CRF Frozen Foods of Pasco, Washington and sold under various brand names are one likely source of illnesses in this outbreak. This is a complex, ongoing investigation, and updates will be provided when more information is available., This outbreak was identified in March 2016. State and local health departments attempted to interview the ill people, a family member, or a caregiver for the ill person about the foods the ill person may have eaten in the month before the illness began. Three of eight ill people, or their caregiver, were interviewed using a questionnaire that asked about a variety of foods. Two of these three people reported buying and eating frozen vegetables in the month before illness began and both reported Organic by Nature brand frozen vegetables. Organic by Nature frozen vegetables are produced by CRF Frozen Foods., During the same time period, as part of a routine product-sampling program, the Ohio Department of Agriculture collected packages of frozen vegetable products from a retail location and isolated Listeria from True Goodness by Meijer brand frozen organic white sweet cut corn and from True Goodness by Meijer brand frozen organic petite green peas. Both products were produced by CRF Frozen Foods. Whole genome sequencing showed that the Listeria isolate from the frozen corn was closely related genetically to seven bacterial isolates from ill people, and the Listeria isolate from the frozen peas was closely related genetically to one isolate from an ill person. This close genetic relationship provides additional evidence that some people in this outbreak became ill from eating frozen vegetables produced by CRF Frozen Foods., On April 23, 2016, CRF Frozen Foods recalledExternal 11 frozen vegetable products because they may be contaminated with Listeria. On May 2, 2016, CRF Frozen Foods expanded the initial recallExternal to include all organic and traditional frozen vegetable and fruit products processed in its Pasco, Washington facility since May 1, 2014. Recalled items were sold in plastic bags under various brand names, nationwide and in Canada. A full list of recalled products is available on the Food Safety websiteExternal. CDC recommends that consumers do not eat, and restaurants and retailers do not serve or sell, recalled organic and traditional frozen vegetables and fruit products., Investigations are ongoing to determine if food sources used to manufacture CRF Frozen Foods products could explain some of the illnesses. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them.,     External, , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '2f7d656cda6a6c841fd630bce1f359c20509c93fce20d1faf21770e30e67ebc9', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Listeriosis Linked to Raw Milk Produced by Miller’s Organic Farm in Pennsylvania | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2018, 12, 3, 4, 1, 47, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/raw-milk-03-16/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted December 14, 2016 12:45 PM ET, This investigation is over. This outbreak is a reminder that people should drink and eat only pasteurized dairy products, including milk, soft cheese, ice cream, and yogurt. This recommendation is especially important for people at higher risk for foodborne illness: children younger than 5, pregnant women, adults 65 and older, and people with weakened immune systems., No additional people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria bacteria were reported since the initial announcement on March 17, 2016, and as a result CDC is closing this investigation., Two people from California and Florida got sick from Listeria infection in 2014. Both of them were hospitalized and the person from Florida died of listeriosis. The likely source of their illnesses was identified in late January 2016 when the U.S. Food and Drug Administration informed CDC that whole genome sequencing of Listeria bacteria from a sample of raw chocolate milk produced by Miller’s Organic Farm was closely related genetically to Listeria bacteria from the two ill people., CDC recommends that people drink and eat only pasteurized dairy products, including milk, soft cheese, ice cream, and yogurt. Pasteurization is the process of heating milk to a high enough temperature for a long enough time to kill dangerous bacteria. This recommendation is especially important for people at higher risk for foodborne illness: children younger than 5, pregnant women, adults 65 and older, and people with weakened immune systems. More information about raw milk is available on the CDC Food Safety and Raw Milk website., CDC and several states are investigating an outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., Collaborative investigative efforts of state, local, and federal public health and regulatory officials indicate that raw milk produced by Miller’s Organic Farm in Bird-In-Hand, Pennsylvania is the likely source of this outbreak. Raw milk is milk from cows or other animals that has not been pasteurized to kill harmful bacteria. This raw, unpasteurized milk can carry dangerous bacteria such as Listeria, Salmonella, E. coli, and Campylobacter, which are responsible for causing numerous foodborne illnesses and outbreaks., In November 2015, samples of raw chocolate milk were collected from a raw milk conference held in Anaheim, California. The raw chocolate milk was produced by Miller’s Organic Farm. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) isolated Listeria from the raw chocolate milk and conducted WGS testing on the isolate to get more genetic information about the bacteria. On January 29, 2016, FDA informed CDC that WGS determined that the Listeria bacteria from the raw chocolate milk was closely related genetically to Listeria bacteria from two people in two states who got sick in 2014, one from California and one from Florida., The age of ill people from California and Florida ranged from 73 to 81 years. Both ill people were hospitalized, and the ill person from Florida died as a result of listeriosis., Once the two illnesses were identified in late January, public health officials worked over several weeks to interview them or their family members about the foods they may have eaten and other exposures in the month before their illness started. Interviews were conducted with the ill person from California and family members for both ill people. It was reported that both ill people drank raw milk before they got sick. The family of the deceased person in Florida reported purchasing raw milk from Miller’s Organic Farm., Raw milk and raw dairy products can pose severe health risks, including death, especially for people at higher risk for foodborne illness, including children younger than 5, pregnant women, adults 65 and older, and people with weakened immune systems. We recommend that people drink and eat only pasteurized dairy products. Learn more about the dangers of drinking raw milk at the CDC Food Safety and Raw Milk website., Because Listeria was recently found in raw milk produced by Miller’s Organic Farm, we are concerned that contaminated raw milk and other raw dairy products from this company could still be on the market and make people sick., This investigation is ongoing. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available., Raw Milk: Know the Raw Facts, , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'cf1527ca0b00ce517d7e911f3ff389cb5e15452f491595741edb30d36365a7fd', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Listeriosis Linked to Packaged Salads Produced at Springfield, Ohio Dole Processing Facility | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2018, 12, 3, 4, 1, 35, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/bagged-salads-01-16/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted March 31, 2016 9:00 AM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, Listeria remains an important cause of serious, life-threatening human illness in the United States. For more information about Listeria and steps that people can take to reduce their risk of infection, visit CDC’s Listeria webpage., CDC collaborated with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., A total of 19 people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria were reported from nine states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Listeria specimens were collected from July 5, 2015 to January 31, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from 3 years to 83, and the median age was 64. Of ill people, 74% were female. All 19 (100%) ill people were reported as hospitalized, and 1 person from Michigan died as a result of listeriosis. One of the illnesses reported was in a pregnant woman. WGS was performed on Listeria isolates from all 19 ill people and showed that the isolates were closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection, such as a contaminated food., According to the Public Health Agency of CanadaExternal, ill people in Canada were infected with the same outbreak strain of Listeria. Whole genome sequencing of clinical isolates from ill people in Canada showed that the isolates were closely related genetically to Listeria isolates from ill people in the United States., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that packaged salads produced at the Dole processing facility in Springfield, Ohio and sold under various brand names were the likely source of this outbreak., State and local health departments interviewed ill people about the foods they may have eaten or other exposures in the month before their illness began. Of 14 ill people who were asked about packaged salad, 13 (93%) reported eating a packaged salad. All of the 9 ill people who specified the brand of packaged salad eaten reported various kinds of Dole brand packaged salad., As part of a routine product sampling program, the Ohio Department of Agriculture collected a Dole brand Field Greens packaged salad from a retail location and isolated Listeria. This packaged salad was produced at the Springfield, Ohio Dole processing facility. In January 2016, WGS showed that the Listeria isolate from the packaged salad was closely related genetically to isolates from ill people. This information helped link the illnesses to Dole brand packaged salads produced at the Dole processing facility in Springfield, Ohio. Additionally, the Public Health Agency of Canada confirmed the presence of Listeria in packaged salads produced at the Dole Springfield, Ohio processing facility., On January 21, 2016, Dole reported to CDC that it had stopped production at the processing facility in Springfield, Ohio and withdrew packaged salads from this facility that were on the market at that time. On January 27, 2016, Dole voluntarily recalledExternal all salad mixes produced in the Springfield, Ohio processing facility. The recall included several brands and varieties of salad mixes that were distributed throughout the United States and in Eastern Canada. The type of salad mixes produced at this facility were packaged in bags and plastic clamshell containers and were identified by the letter “A” at the beginning of the manufacturing code on the package. Any recalled salad mixes still on the market or in consumers’ homes would be past their expiration dates., This outbreak appears to be over. More information about what to do with recalled fruits and vegetables is available on the Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers page., Since the last update on January 28, three more ill people have been reported from Missouri (1) and Ohio (2)., Eighteen people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria have been reported from nine states since July 5, 2015. The number of ill people reported from each state is as follows: Connecticut (1), Indiana (1), Massachusetts (1), Michigan (4), Missouri (2), New Jersey (1), New York (5), Ohio (2), and Pennsylvania (1). Whole genome sequencing has been performed on clinical isolates from all ill people and has shown that the isolates are highly related genetically., Listeria specimens were collected from ill people between July 5, 2015 and January 31, 2016. Ill people range in age from 3 years to 83, and the median age is 66. Seventy-two percent of ill people are female. All 18 (100%) ill people were hospitalized, including one person from Michigan who died as a result of listeriosis. One of the illnesses reported was in a pregnant woman., Since the last update on January 22, three more ill people have been reported from Connecticut, Missouri, and New York., Fifteen people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria have been reported from eight states since July 5, 2015. The number of ill people reported from each state is as follows: Connecticut (1), Indiana (1), Massachusetts (1), Michigan (4), Missouri (1), New Jersey (1), New York (5), and Pennsylvania (1). Whole genome sequencing has been performed on clinical isolates from all ill people and has shown that the isolates are highly related genetically., Listeria specimens were collected from ill people between July 5, 2015 and January 3, 2016. Ill people range in age from 3 years to 83, and the median age is 64. Seventy-three percent of ill people are female. All 15 (100%) ill people were hospitalized, including one person from Michigan who died as a result of listeriosis. One of the illnesses reported was in a pregnant woman., State and local health departments and federal investigators continue to interview ill people about the foods they may have eaten or other exposures in the month before their illness began. Of eight ill people who were asked about packaged salad, all eight (100%) reported eating a packaged salad. Four (100%) of four ill people who were able to specify the brands of packaged salad they ate reported various kinds of Dole brand packaged salad., On January 27, 2016, DoleExternal voluntarily recalled all salad mixes produced in the Springfield, Ohio processing facility. At this time, there is no evidence to suggest that any products produced at other Dole processing facilities in the United States are linked to illness. The type of salad mixes produced at this facility were packaged in bags and plastic clamshell containers and can be identified by the letter “A” at the beginning of the manufacturing code on the package., According to the Public Health Agency of CanadaExternal, there are seven people in five Canadian provinces infected with the same outbreak strain of Listeria. Laboratory tests performed to date on clinical isolates from ill people in Canada showed that the isolates are highly related genetically to Listeria isolates from ill people in the United States. Packaged salads produced at the Springfield, Ohio Dole processing facility were distributed in Eastern Canada and the United States. Additionally, the Public Health Agency of Canada confirmed the presence of Listeria in packaged salads produced at the Dole Springfield, Ohio processing facility., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available., Since September 2015, CDC has been collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., Twelve people infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria have been reported from six states since July 5, 2015. The number of ill people reported from each state is as follows: Indiana (1), Massachusetts (1), Michigan (4), New Jersey (1), New York (4), and Pennsylvania (1). WGS has been performed on clinical isolates from all 12 ill people and has shown that the isolates are highly related genetically., Listeria specimens were collected from July 5, 2015 to December 23, 2015. Ill people range in age from 3 years to 83, and the median age is 66. Sixty-nine percent of ill people are female. All 12 (100%) ill people reported being hospitalized, including one person from Michigan who died as a result of listeriosis. One of the illnesses reported was in a pregnant woman., The outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who were diagnosed each week. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence available at this time indicates that packaged salads produced at the Dole processing facility in Springfield, Ohio and sold under various brand names are the likely source of this outbreak., State and local health departments are interviewing ill people about the foods they may have eaten or other exposures in the month before their illness began. Of five ill people who were asked about packaged salad, all five (100%) reported eating a packaged salad. Two (100%) of two ill people who specified the brand of packaged salad eaten reported various varieties of Dole brand packaged salad., As part of a routine product sampling program, the Ohio Department of Agriculture collected a Dole brand Field Greens packaged salad from a retail location and isolated Listeria. This packaged salad was produced at the Springfield, Ohio Dole processing facility. In January 2016, WGS showed that the Listeria isolate from the packaged salad was highly related genetically to isolates from ill people. This information linked the illnesses to Dole brand packaged salads produced at the Dole processing facility in Springfield, Ohio., On January 21, 2016, DoleExternal reported to CDC that it had stopped production at the processing facility in Springfield, Ohio. The company also reported that it is withdrawing packaged salads currently on the market that were produced at this facility. The withdrawal does not affect other Dole products., CDC recommends that consumers do not eat, restaurants do not serve, and retailers do not sell packaged salads produced at the Dole processing facility in Springfield, Ohio. These packaged salads were sold under various brand names, including Dole, Fresh Selections, Simple Truth, Marketside, The Little Salad Bar, and President’s Choice Organics. The packaged salads can be identified by the letter “A” at the beginning of the manufacturing code found on the package. At this time, there is no evidence to suggest that packaged salads produced at other Dole processing facilities in the United States are linked to illness., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'ee78461b3086831086ce0e4a2492ed9943c654b6c66f3c2d296bc25539c229e5', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Listeriosis Linked to Soft Cheeses (Final Update) | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2018, 12, 3, 4, 2, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/soft-cheeses-09-15/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted October 23, 2015 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. However, people could continue to get sick because recalled cheeses may still be in homes, restaurants, or retail locations. Consumers, restaurants, and retailers unaware of the recall could eat, serve, or sell them. Read the Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers., CDC collaborated with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of the outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. This additional detail was important because five rare PFGE fingerprints of Listeria were included in this investigation. The sequencing showed that the Listeria strains with the five rare PFGE fingerprints were closely related genetically., Thirty people infected with one of the closely related Listeria strainswere reported from 10 states since June 16, 2010. The number of ill people reported from each state was as follows: California (18), Colorado (1), Illinois (2), Massachusetts (2), Michigan (1), New York (2), Ohio (1), Tennessee (1), Virginia (1), and Washington (1)., Dates of Listeria specimen collection ranged from June 16, 2010 to August 24, 2015. The cluster was first identified in August 2015 after investigators saw an increase in one of the five rare PFGE fingerprints reported to PulseNet. WGS found that the four other PFGE fingerprints were closely related genetically to the first PFGE fingerprint. Illnesses associated with those PFGE fingerprints were added to the investigation, including illnesses that occurred over 5 years ago., Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 92, and the median age was 73. Seventy percent of ill people were female. Twenty-eight (93%) of 30 ill people for whom information was available reported being hospitalized. Six of the illnesses were pregnancy-related, and one illness resulted in a fetal loss. Three deaths were reported from California (2) and Ohio (1)., Epidemiologic and laboratory information indicated that soft cheeses distributed by Karoun Dairies were the likely source of this outbreak., State and local health departments interviewed ill people about the foods they may have eaten or other exposures in the month before their illness began. Twenty (67%) of 30 people with available information were of Middle Eastern or Eastern European descent or shopped at Middle Eastern or Eastern European-style markets. Of 28 ill people for whom information was available, 21 (75%) consumed soft cheese, and all of those 21 (100%) reported eating Middle Eastern, Eastern European, Mediterranean, or Mexican-style cheeses, including ani, feta (e.g., Bulgarian feta), Middle Eastern-style string cheese, nabulsi, and village cheese. Three of seven ill people who specified the brand of cheese eaten reported brands distributed by Karoun Dairies. An additional ill person was unable to name the brand of cheese eaten, but described the packaging and label of a Karoun product. No other brand of soft cheese was reported more than once. One other ill person reported eating Karoun brand kefir cheese. This person was previously included in the number of people reporting a Karoun brand soft cheese, but has now been excluded since kefir is typically classified as a yogurt product rather than a cheese., FDA isolated Listeria monocytogenes from two environmental samples collected in September 2015 from the Central Valley Cheese, Inc. manufacturing facility in Turlock, California. Central Valley Cheese, Inc. manufactures cheese for Karoun Dairies. Whole genome sequencing showed that these isolates were closely related genetically to isolates from ill people. In addition, whole genome sequencing showed that five Listeria isolates collected in 2010 from the same facility were also closely related genetically to isolates from ill people., On September 16, 2015, Karoun Dairies, Inc. voluntarily recalledExternal certain cheeses that the company distributes due to possible contamination with Listeria. The recall includes several brands and types of cheeses that were distributed to retail outlets in the United States. Products were sold under the following brands: Karoun, Arz, Gopi, Queso Del Valle, Central Valley Creamery, and Yanni. Products were vacuum packed, in jars or in pails. Weights vary from 5 ounces to 30 pounds. A full list of cheeses is available on the Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers page., This outbreak investigation is over. However, people could continue to get sick because recalled cheeses may still be in homes, restaurants, or retail locations. Consumers, restaurants, and retailers unaware of the recall could eat, serve, or sell them., Since the last update on September 23, 2015, six more people infected with one of the closely related Listeria strainswere identified using whole genome sequencing. These illnesses occurred in 2010 (3), 2012 (2), and 2015 (1). These illnesses have been added to the total case count., Thirty people infected with one of the closely related Listeria strainswere reported from 10 states since June 16, 2010. The number of ill people reported from each state was as follows: California (18), Colorado (1), Illinois (2), Massachusetts (2), Michigan (1), New York (2), Ohio (1), Tennessee (1), Virginia (1), and Washington (1)., Dates of Listeria specimen collection ranged from June 16, 2010 to August 24, 2015. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 92, and the median age was 73. Seventy percent of ill people were female. Twenty-eight (93%) of 30 ill people for whom information was available reported being hospitalized. Six of the illnesses were pregnancy-related, and one illness resulted in a fetal loss. Three deaths were reported from California (2) and Ohio (1)., Epidemiologic and laboratory information indicates that soft cheeses distributed by Karoun Dairies are the likely source of this outbreak. This investigation is ongoing., State and local health departments continue to interview ill people about the foods they may have eaten or other exposures in the month before their illness began. Sixteen (67%) of 24 people with available information are of Middle Eastern or Eastern European descent or shopped at Middle Eastern or Eastern European-style markets. Of 23 ill people for whom information is available, 19 (83%) consumed soft cheese, and 18 (95%) reported eating Middle Eastern, Eastern European, Mediterranean, or Mexican-style cheeses, including ani, feta (e.g., Bulgarian feta), kefir cheese, Middle Eastern-style string cheese, nabulsi, and village cheese. Four of seven ill people who specified the brand of cheese eaten reported brands distributed by Karoun Dairies. An additional ill person was unable to name the brand of cheese eaten, but described the packaging and label of a Karoun product. No other brand of soft cheese was reported more than once., FDA isolated Listeria monocytogenes from two environmental samples collected in September 2015 from the Central Valley Cheese, Inc. manufacturing facility in Turlock, California. Central Valley Cheese, Inc. manufactures cheese for Karoun Dairies. Whole genome sequencing showed that these isolates are closely related genetically to isolates from ill people. In addition, whole genome sequencing showed that five Listeria isolates collected in 2010 from the same facility are also closely related genetically to isolates from ill people., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. In the current outbreak, this additional detail was important. Five rare PFGE fingerprints of Listeria are included in this investigation. The sequencing showed that the Listeria strains with the five rare PFGE fingerprints are closely related genetically., Twenty-four people infected with one of the closely related Listeria strains have been reported from nine states since August 8, 2010. The number of ill people reported from each state is as follows: California (14), Colorado (1), Illinois (1), Massachusetts (2), Michigan (1), New York (2), Ohio (1), Tennessee (1), and Washington (1)., Dates of Listeria specimen collection range from August 8, 2010 to August 24, 2015. The cluster was first identified in August 2015 after investigators saw an increase in one of the five rare PFGE  fingerprints reported to PulseNet. WGS found that the four other PFGE fingerprints were closely related genetically to the first PFGE fingerprint. Illnesses associated with those PFGE fingerprints were added to the investigation, including illnesses that occurred over 5 years ago. Additional illnesses are under investigation., Ill people range in age from less than 1 year to 92, and the median age is 77. Seventy-five percent of ill people are female. Twenty-one (91%) of 23 ill people for whom information is available reported being hospitalized. Five of the illnesses were pregnancy-related, and one illness resulted in a fetal loss. One death was reported from Ohio., The outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of persons who were diagnosed each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve., Investigation of the Outbreak, The investigation has not conclusively identified the source of this outbreak, but most ill people interviewed reported eating soft cheese before becoming ill. The investigation is ongoing., State and local health departments are interviewing ill people about the foods they may have eaten or other exposures in the month before their illness began. Fifteen (63%) of 24 people with available information are of Middle Eastern or Eastern European descent or shopped at Middle Eastern-style markets. Of 22 ill people for whom information is available, 18 (82%) consumed soft cheeses, and 16 (89%) reported eating Middle Eastern, Eastern European, Mediterranean, or Mexican-style cheeses, including ani, feta (including Bulgarian feta), Middle Eastern-style string cheese, and nabulsi. Four (57%) of seven ill people who specified the brand of cheese eaten reported brands distributed by Karoun Dairies. No other brand of cheese was reported more than once., On September 16, 2015, Karoun Dairies, Inc. voluntarily recalled Cdc-pdf[PDF – 2 pages]External and ceased production of certain cheeses that the company distributes due to possible contamination with Listeria. The recall includes several brands and types of cheeses that were distributed to retail outlets in the United States. Products were sold under the following brands: Karoun, Arz, Gopi, Queso Del Valle, Central Valley Creamery, and Yanni. Products are vacuum packed, in jars or in pails. Weights vary from 5 ounces to 30 pounds. A full list of cheeses is available on the Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers page., CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview them. Updates will be provided when more information is available., Photos of the recalled cheeses are availableExternal., , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'ac29b341de7d172a16ccf6a8043474fc2b88183f9f9e10a95e39bfd87bcbacf2', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Listeriosis Linked to Blue Bell Creameries Products| Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2018, 12, 3, 4, 0, 17, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/ice-cream-03-15/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted June 10, 2015 10:30 AM ET, This outbreak investigation is over. However, people could continue to get sick because recalled products may still be in people’s freezers and consumers unaware of the recalls could eat them. Institutions should not serve and retailers should not sell recalled products. Read the Advice to Consumers, Institutions, and Retailers., This was a complex multistate outbreak investigation of listeriosis cases occurring over several years. Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks of enteric illness. Several PFGE patterns (strains) of Listeria were involved in this outbreak., A total of 10 people infected with several strains of Listeria were reported from 4 states: Arizona (1), Kansas (5), Oklahoma (1), and Texas (3). Illness onset dates ranged from January 2010 through January 2015. The people with illness onsets during 2010–2014 were identified through a retrospective review of the PulseNet database for DNA fingerprints matching isolates collected from Blue Bell ice cream samples. All 10 (100%) people were hospitalized. Three deaths were reported from Kansas., February 2015, In February 2015, the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control isolated Listeria as part of routine sampling from Blue Bell brand single-serving ice cream products collected from a distribution center: Chocolate Chip Country Cookie Sandwiches and Great Divide Bars. In response to the findings in South Carolina, the Texas Department of State Health Services collected product samples from the Blue Bell Creameries production facility in Brenham, Texas, that made these products. Testing by Texas health officials yielded Listeria isolates from some samples of the same two products tested by South Carolina and from another Blue Bell ice cream product called “Scoops.” This product was made on the same production line as the Chocolate Chip Country Cookie Sandwiches and Great Divide Bars. PFGE was performed on the Listeria isolated from the ice cream samples; seven different PFGE patterns were identified and uploaded to PulseNet., March 2015, In March 2015, Kansas health officials identified two people from the same hospital who were infected with Listeria bacteria that had the same PFGE pattern. Three additional listeriosis cases with three other PFGE patterns had previously been identified from the same hospital. All five people were hospitalized for unrelated problems before developing invasive listeriosis — a finding that strongly suggested their infections were acquired in the hospital. Listeria isolates from four of the five people had PFGE patterns that were also identified in ice cream tested by South Carolina and Texas. Although some of the illnesses occurred more than a year before this investigation began, all four people with available information consumed milkshakes made with the “Scoops” Blue Bell ice cream product while they were in the hospital. Isolates from four of these people were highly related to each other by whole genome sequencing. Listeria isolated from the fifth person was not related to isolates from the other four ill people. In addition, the PFGE pattern was not identified in any ice cream samples. However, this person was part of a recognized illness cluster at the hospital and consumed milkshakes made with “Scoops” while hospitalized. As a result, this person was included as a case in the outbreak.  Illness onset dates for the five people ranged from January 2014 through January 2015. Three of these people died as a result of their Listeria infection., On March 13, 2015, Blue Bell Creameries reported removing the “Scoops” ice cream product and other products made on the same production line from the market. The company also reported that it had shut down that production line at its Brenham, Texas, facility., On March 22, 2015, the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) reported that Listeria was isolated from a previously unopened, single-serving Blue Bell brand 3 oz. institutional/food service chocolate ice cream cupExternal collected from the Kansas hospital involved in the outbreak. Samples of Blue Bell brand 3 oz. institutional/food service chocolate ice cream cups collected from the company’s Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, facilityExternal also yielded Listeria. Listeria isolated from ice cream cup samples were indistinguishable from each other by PFGE, but were different from those isolated from people in Kansas and from other Blue Bell brand ice cream products previously sampled in Texas and South Carolina. On March 23, 2015, Blue Bell announced a recallExternal of 3 oz. institutional/food service ice cream cups (with tab lids) of several flavors produced at the company’s Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, facilityExternal., April 2015, On April 3, 2015, CDC reported that illnesses might be linked to ice cream made in Blue Bell Creameries’ Oklahoma facility, but lacked sufficient information to include them as cases in the outbreak at the time. These illnesses were identified when investigators searched the PulseNet database and identified 6 people from Arizona (1), Oklahoma (1), and Texas (4) with listeriosis between 2010 and 2014 who had Listeria isolates with PFGE patterns indistinguishable from isolates from the chocolate ice cream cups made in the Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, facility. The four people reported from Texas were hospitalized for unrelated problems before developing listeriosis. Information available for one person indicated that they consumed ice cream in a Texas hospital before developing listeriosis; the Texas Department of State Health Services reported that the hospital had received Blue Bell brand ice cream cups. None of the four people in Texas died from Listeria infection. At this point in the investigation, CDC recommended that consumers not eat and institutions and retailers not serve any products made at the company’s Oklahoma facility, in addition to any previously recalled or withdrawn products. That day, Blue Bell Creameries reported that they had voluntarily suspended operations at their facility in Oklahoma., On April 8, 2015, CDC reported that whole genome sequencing confirmed that three of the four isolates from people in Texas were nearly identical to Listeria strains isolated from ice cream produced at Blue Bell Creameries’ Oklahoma facility. These three people were added to the case count for the outbreak, bringing the total to 8. The fourth isolate was later determined not to be part of the outbreak by whole genome sequencing and this illness was not added to the case count., On April 20, 2015, Blue Bell Creameries voluntarily recalledExternal all products currently on the market made at all of its facilities, including ice cream, frozen yogurt, sherbet, and frozen snacks.Blue Bell announced this recall after sampling by the company revealed that Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough Ice Cream half gallons produced on March 17, 2015, and March 27, 2015, contained Listeria., On April 21, CDC reported that whole genome sequencing confirmed that the people from Arizona (1) and Oklahoma (1) were part of the outbreak, bringing the total case count to 10., May 2015, On May 7, 2015, FDA released the findings from recent inspections at the Blue Bell production facilities in Brenham, Texas Cdc-pdf[PDF – 4 pages]External; Broken Arrow, Oklahoma Cdc-pdf[PDF – 11 pages]External; and Sylacauga, Alabama Cdc-pdf[PDF – 5 pages]External., This outbreak investigation is over. However, people could continue to get sick because recalled products may still be in people’s freezers and consumers unaware of the recalls could eat them. Institutions should not serve and retailers should not sell recalled products. These products are frozen, so consumers, institutions, and retailers should check their freezers. Read the Advice to Consumers, Institutions, and Retailers., A total of 10 people infected with several strains of Listeria monocytogenes were reported from 4 states: Arizona (1), Kansas (5), Oklahoma (1), and Texas (3). There were no changes to the case count since the last update on April 21. Illness onset dates ranged from January 2010 through January 2015. The people with illness onsets during 2010-2014 were identified through a retrospective review of the PulseNet database for DNA fingerprints matching isolates collected from Blue Bell ice cream samples. All 10 (100%) people were hospitalized. Three deaths were reported from Kansas., As of April 21, 2015, a total of ten patients infected with several strains of Listeria monocytogenes were reported from four states: Arizona (1), Kansas (5), Oklahoma (1), and Texas (3). Illness onset dates ranged from January 2010 through January 2015. The patients with illness onsets ranging from 2010-2014 were identified through a retrospective review of the PulseNet database for DNA fingerprints that were similar to isolates collected from Blue Bell ice cream samples. Since the last update on April 8, 2015, two additional patients, one each from Arizona and Oklahoma, were confirmed to be a part of the outbreak by whole genome sequencing. All ten (100%) patients were hospitalized. Three deaths were reported from Kansas., One additional isolate from a patient with listeriosis is undergoing further molecular laboratory testing to determine whether this illness may be related to this outbreak. Results of this testing will be reported once they are available. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify any other ill persons that may be part of this outbreak., On April 20, 2015, Blue Bell Creameries voluntarily recalledExternal all of its products currently on the market made at all of its facilities, including ice cream, frozen yogurt, sherbet, and frozen snacks, because they have the potential to be contaminated with Listeria monocytogenes. Blue Bell announced this recall after sampling by the company revealed that Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough Ice Cream half gallons produced on March 17, 2015 and March 27, 2015 contained the bacteria. Listeria monocytogenes was previously found in other Blue Bell products. CDC recommends that consumers do not eat any Blue Bell brand products, and that institutions and retailers do not serve or sell them., State and local health officials, CDC, and FDA continue to work closely on this investigation, and new information will be provided on this website as it becomes available., This is a complex and ongoing multistate investigation of listeriosis occurring over an extended period. Several strains of Listeria monocytogenes are involved in this outbreak. Information indicates that various Blue Bell brand products produced in facilities in Texas and Oklahoma are the source of this outbreak., The outbreak consists of two clusters of people infected with several strains of Listeria monocytogenes that were also found in products made at two Blue Bell facilities in Texas and Oklahoma. Eight people with Listeria infections related to this outbreak have been confirmed from two states: Kansas (5) and Texas (3). Three deaths were reported from Kansas., Cluster 1 consists of five patients reported from Kansas during January 2014 through January 2015 who were all hospitalized at a single hospital for unrelated problems before developing listeriosis. Of the four ill people for whom information is available on the foods eaten in the month before Listeria infection, all consumed milkshakes made at the hospital with a Blue Bell brand ice cream product called “Scoops.” Whole genome sequences of Listeria monocytogenes strains isolated from four of the patients were found to be highly related to sequences of Listeria strains isolated from “Scoops” and two other products made on the same line at the company’s Texas facility. These products were recalled by Blue Bell Creameries on March 13, 2015., Cluster 2 consists of three patients reported from Texas during 2011 through 2014 who were all hospitalized for unrelated problems before developing listeriosis. Whole genome sequences of their Listeria monocytogenes strains were nearly identical to Listeria strains isolated from ice cream produced at the Blue Bell Creameries’ Oklahoma facility., Three additional patients with listeriosis during 2010 through 2012 whose isolates have PFGE patterns similar to those of others in the cluster have been identified in the PulseNet database; further molecular laboratory testing is under way to determine whether these illnesses may be related to this outbreak. Results of this testing will be reported once they are available., The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently isolated Listeria monocytogenes strains from a 1-pint container of Blue Bell brand banana pudding ice cream collected from the company’s Oklahoma production facility. This contaminated product was produced in the same facility but on a different line from the 3 oz. institutional/food service ice cream cupsExternal previously recalled., On April 3, 2015, Blue Bell Creameries reported that they had voluntarily suspended operationsExternal at their Oklahoma production facility.  On April 7, 2015, Blue Bell Creameries announced a third product recallExternal that included banana pudding ice cream pints and other products made on the same line that were produced between February 12, 2015 and March 27, 2015 at their Oklahoma facility. Further testing of environmental and product samples from Blue Bell Creamery facilities is ongoing., Blue Bell Creameries previously issued two other recalls. On March 13, 2015, the company removed from the market “Scoops” and other products made on the same line at their Texas facility. On March 23, 2015, the company recalled 3 oz. institutional/food service ice cream cups of chocolate, strawberry, and vanilla flavors made at their Oklahoma facility., CDC continues to recommend that consumers do not eat any Blue Bell brand products made at the Oklahoma production facility (including the recalled products) and that retailers and institutions should not sell or serve them. This advice is particularly important for consumers at higher risk for listeriosis, including pregnant women, adults 65 and older, and people with weakened immune systems. Learn more on the Advice page., In addition, CDC continues to recommend that consumers do not eat any products that Blue Bell Creameries recalled., State and local health officials, CDC, and FDA continue to work closely on this investigation, and new information will be provided on this website as it becomes available., On March 22, 2015, the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) reported that Listeria monocytogenes was isolated from a previously unopened, single-serving Blue Bell brand 3 oz. institutional/food service chocolate ice cream cupExternal collected from the Kansas hospital involved in the outbreak. Samples of Blue Bell brand 3 oz. institutional/food service chocolate ice cream cups collected from the company’s Oklahoma facilityExternal have also yielded Listeria monocytogenes strains. Listeria isolates from ice cream cup samples were indistinguishable from each other by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), but were different from those isolated from patients in Kansas and from other Blue Bell brand ice cream products previously sampled in Texas and South Carolina. The pattern is rare., CDC searched the PulseNet database and identified six patients with listeriosis between 2010 and 2014 who had Listeria isolates with PFGE patterns indistinguishable from those of Listeria isolated from Blue Bell brand 3 oz. institutional/food service chocolate ice cream cups. Four of these six patients had been hospitalized in Texas for unrelated problems before developing listeriosis. Information is available for one patient; that patient reported consuming ice cream in a Texas hospital before developing listeriosis, and the Texas Department of State Health Services reported that the hospital had received Blue Bell brand ice cream cups. Investigation to determine whether these illnesses are related to exposure to Blue Bell products is ongoing., Based on the information CDC has at this time, we recommend that consumers do not eat any Blue Bell brand products made at the company’s Oklahoma facility and that retailers and institutions do not sell or serve them. This advice is particularly important for consumers at higher risk for listeriosis, including pregnant women, adults 65 and older, and people with weakened immune systems. The contaminated products may be in the freezers of consumers, retailers, and institutions.  On April 3, 2015, Blue Bell Creameries reported that they had voluntarily suspended operations at their facility in Oklahoma. Blue Bell brand products made at the Oklahoma facility can be identified by checking for letters “O,” “P,” “Q,” “R,” “S,” and “T” following the “code date” printed on the bottom of the product package. Learn more on the Advice page ., In addition, CDC recommends that consumers do not eat any products that Blue Bell Creameries recalled or removed from the market ., State and local health officials, CDC, and FDA continue to work closely on this investigation, and new information will be provided on this website as it becomes available., The information available at this time indicates that certain Blue Bell brand ice cream products are the source of this outbreak. Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness., The Kansas Department of Agriculture’s (KDA) laboratory isolated Listeria monocytogenes from a previously unopened, single-serving Blue Bell brand 3 oz. institutional/food service chocolate ice cream cupExternal obtained in March 2015 from the hospital associated with this outbreak. This cup was produced in the Broken Arrow, Oklahoma, plant on April 15, 2014. Molecular subtyping information is not yet available for this isolate. KDA also tested environmental samples from the hospital kitchen, but none yielded Listeria monocytogenes., On March 23, 2015, Blue Bell Ice Cream of Brenham, Texas, announced a recall of 3 oz. institutional/food service ice cream cupsExternal (with tab lids) of the following flavors: chocolate, strawberry, and vanilla. These ice cream cups were distributed in Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and Wyoming via food service accounts. These cups are sold to institutions, which may include schools, nursing homes, and hospitals; according to Blue Bell Creameries, they are not sold through retail outlets, such as convenience stores or supermarkets. CDC recommends that consumers do not eat recalled products and that institutions and retailers do not sell or serve them. Investigation into whether other products were produced on the same line as the 3 oz. institutional/food service ice cream cups is ongoing, and new information will be provided as it becomes available., The South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control isolated Listeria monocytogenes from the following Blue Bell brand single-serving ice cream products collected from a distribution center in 2015: Chocolate Chip Country Cookie Sandwiches and Great Divide Bars.  In response to the findings in South Carolina, the Texas Department of State Health Services collected product samples from the Blue Bell Creameries production facility in Brenham, Texas. These samples yielded Listeria monocytogenes from the same two products tested by South Carolina and also from the ice cream Scoops, which is made on the same production line., Three strains of Listeria monocytogenes isolated from the ice cream samples had PFGE patterns that were indistinguishable from those of Listeria bacteria obtained from samples from four patients, and whole genome sequencing subsequently also showed that the strains were highly related to those isolated from four patients. Listeria monocytogenes isolates with four other PFGE patterns were also isolated from the ice cream samples., Invoices provided by the hospital to the Kansas Department of Health and Environment indicate that the Blue Bell brand ice cream Scoops used in the patients’ milkshakes came from Blue Bell Creamery’s facility in Texas. Further whole genome sequencing of Listeria monocytogenes isolates obtained from the ice cream is in progress., Blue Bell Creameries has reported removing from the market the Scoops ice cream product and other products made on the same production line, which the company has reportedly shut down. These ice cream products were distributed in Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and Wyoming via select stores and food service accounts., Contaminated ice cream products may still be in the freezers of consumers, institutions, and retailers, given that these products can have a shelf life of up to 2 years. CDC recommends that consumers do not eat products that Blue Bell Creameries recalledExternal or removed from the market, and institutions and retailers should not serve or sell them. A detailed list of products is available on the Advice page . State and local health officials, CDC, and FDA continue to work closely on this investigation, and new information will be provided on this website as it becomes available., State and local health officials, CDC, and FDA are collaborating to investigate an outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). The joint investigation found that certain Blue Bell brand ice cream products are the likely source for some or all of these illnesses. Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., The five ill people included in this outbreak investigation have been reported from KansasExternal and were each infected with one of four strains of Listeria monocytogenes identified by PFGE.  All five people were hospitalized at the same hospital for unrelated problems before developing invasive listeriosis — a finding that strongly suggests their infections were acquired in the hospital. Isolates from four of these patients are highly related by whole genome sequencing. Illness onset dates for the five patients ranged from January 2014 through January 2015. Although some illnesses occurred more than a year ago, the cluster was identified in March 2015 after health officials noted that two patients who had been in the same hospital were infected with Listeria monocytogenes bacteria that were indistinguishable by PFGE. All five ill people are older adults, and three are women. Three deaths have been reported., The information available at this time indicates that certain Blue Bell brand ice cream products are the likely source of this outbreak. Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness. Of the four ill people for whom information is available on the foods eaten in the month before Listeria infection, all four consumed milkshakes made with a single-serving Blue Bell brand ice cream product called “Scoops” while they were in the hospital., In an unrelated investigation, the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control isolated Listeria monocytogenes from the following Blue Bell brand single-serving ice cream products collected from a distribution center in 2015: Chocolate Chip Country Cookie Sandwiches and Great Divide Bars.  In response to the findings in South Carolina, the Texas Department of State Health Services collected product samples from the Blue Bell Creameries production facility in Brenham, Texas. These samples yielded Listeria monocytogenes from the same two products tested by South Carolina and also from the ice cream Scoops, which is made on the same production line. Listeria monocytogenes was not found in other Blue Bell brand ice cream products tested., Three strains of Listeria monocytogenes isolated from the ice cream samples had PFGE patterns that were indistinguishable from those of Listeria bacteria obtained from samples from four patients. Listeria monocytogenes isolates with four other PFGE patterns were also isolated from the ice cream samples. Invoices provided by the hospital to the Kansas Department of Health and Environment indicate that the Blue Bell brand ice cream Scoops used in the patients’ milkshakes came from Blue Bell Creamery’s facility in Texas. Whole genome sequencing of the Listeria monocytogenes isolates obtained from the ice cream is in progress., One patient’s Listeria monocytogenes strain has a PFGE pattern that does not match any identified in an ice cream sample. However, epidemiologic evidence, including acquiring infection at the same hospital as the other patients and consumption of the ice cream products, suggests that this illness may be related. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify any additional ill persons whose illnesses may be related to this outbreak., Blue Bell Creameries has reported removing from the market the Scoops ice cream product and other products made on the same production line. The company also has reported that it has shut down that production line., Contaminated ice cream products may still be in the freezers of consumers, institutions, and retailers, given that these products can have a shelf life of up to 2 years. CDC recommends that consumers do not eat products that Blue Bell Creameries removed from the market, and institutions and retailers should not serve or sell them. A detailed list of products is available on the Advice page . State and local health officials, CDC, and FDA continue to work closely on this investigation, and new information will be provided on this website as it becomes available.,  Top of Page, , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'd2a238a8fb815c39c056faf948bcbe79397e5cdd667e85dff385de5c2199e883', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Listeriosis Linked to Commercially Produced, Prepackaged Caramel Apples Made from Bidart Bros. Apples | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2018, 12, 3, 4, 0, 37, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/caramel-apples-12-14/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted February 12, 2015 4:30 PM ET, , This investigation is closed, and the shelf life of recalled products has passed. Read the Advice to Consumers to learn about products that were recalled., , , CDC collaborated with public health officials in several states and with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External to investigate an outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Joint investigation efforts indicated that commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples made from Bidart Bros. apples were the likely source of this outbreak. Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness. People at higher risk for listeriosis include adults 65 years or older, people with weakened immune systems, and pregnant women., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill people using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks of enteric illness. Two outbreak clusters were identified by the PFGE technique. When WGS was used, two Listeria isolates (one within each cluster) were found to be highly related but distinct between the two clusters. CDC investigated the two clusters together because one person was infected with both Listeria strains simultaneously and also because illnesses in the two clusters occurred during a similar time period and in similar regions of the country., The 35 ill people included in this outbreak investigation were reported from 12 states: Arizona (5), California (3), Colorado (1), Minnesota (4), Missouri (5), Nevada (1), New Mexico (6), North Carolina (1), Texas (4), Utah (1), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (3). Illness onset dates ranged from October 17, 2014, to January 6, 2015. Eleven illnesses were associated with a pregnancy (occurred in a pregnant woman or her newborn infant). One fetal loss was reported. Among people whose illnesses were not associated with a pregnancy, ages ranged from 7 to 92 years, with a median age of 62 years, and 33% were female. Three invasive illnesses (meningitis) occurred among otherwise healthy children aged 5–15 years. Thirty-four people were hospitalized, and listeriosis contributed to at least three of the seven deaths reported., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of people who were diagnosed each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve., The Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) identified two cases of listeriosisExternal in Canada with the same PFGE patterns as those seen in the U.S. outbreak. More detailed testing using WGS showed that the isolate from only one of the two cases was genetically related to the U.S. outbreak. That person reported eating a caramel apple., In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures in the month before becoming ill. Twenty-eight (90%) of the 31 ill people interviewed reported eating commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples before becoming ill. Caramel apple brands named in interviews included Happy Apples, Carnival, and Merb’s Candies. However, other brands may also have been consumed. The three ill people interviewed who did not report eating caramel apples did report eating whole or sliced green apples not covered in caramel. However, most (about 60%) of the general US population report eating apples Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] during a given week. The source of the reported whole or sliced green apples is unknown, and it is unknown whether these apples were linked to the patients’ illnesses., On January 6, 2015, Bidart Bros. of Bakersfield, California, voluntarily recalledExternal Granny Smith and Gala apples because environmental testing revealed contamination with Listeria monocytogenes at the firm’s apple-packing facility. The recall included all Granny Smith and Gala apples shipped from its Shafter, California, packing facility in 2014. On January 8, 2015, FDA laboratory analyses using PFGE showed that environmental Listeria isolates from the Bidart Bros. facility were indistinguishable from the outbreak strains. On January 18, 2015, WGS found that these isolates were highly related to the outbreak strains. In addition, WGS showed that Listeria isolates from whole apples produced by Bidart Bros., collected along the distribution chain, also were highly related to the outbreak strains. CDC recommends that consumers not eat any of the recalled Granny Smith and Gala apples produced by Bidart Bros. and retailers not sell or serve them., Three firms that produce caramel apples issued voluntary recalls after receiving notice from Bidart Bros. that there may be a connection between Bidart Bros. apples and this listeriosis outbreak. On December 24, 2014, Happy Apple Company of Washington, Missouri, voluntarily recalled Happy Apples brand caramel applesExternal with a best use by date between August 25 and November 23, 2014. On December 31, 2014, Happy Apple Company expanded the recallExternal to include Kroger brand caramel apples produced by Happy Apple Company with a best use by date between September 15 and November 18, 2014. On December 27, 2014, California Snack Foods voluntarily recalled Karm’l Dapple brand caramel applesExternal with a best use by date between August 15 and November 28, 2014. On December 29, 2014, Merb’s Candies of St. Louis, Missouri issued a voluntary recall of Merb’s Candies Bionic Apples and Double Dipped ApplesExternal that would have been available from September 8 through November 25, 2014., This outbreak appears to be over. However, recalled products may still be in people’s homes. Consumers unaware of the recalls could continue to eat the products and get sick., , The information CDC has at this time continues to indicate that commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples may be contaminated with Listeria. Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness. In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures in the month before becoming ill. To date, 23 (88%) of the 26 ill people interviewed reported eating commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples before becoming ill. Caramel apple brands named in interviews have included Happy Apples, Carnival, and Merb’s Candies.  However, the investigation is ongoing and other brands may be identified. The three ill people interviewed who did not report eating caramel apples did report eating whole or sliced green apples not covered in caramel. The source of these apples is unknown, and it is unknown whether these apples are linked to the patients’ illnesses., On January 6, 2015, Bidart Bros. of Bakersfield, California voluntarily recalledExternal  Granny Smith and Gala apples because environmental testing revealed contamination with Listeria monocytogenes at the firm’s apple-packing facility. The recall includes all Granny Smith and Gala apples shipped from its Shafter, California packing facility in 2014. CDC recommends that consumers not eat any of the recalled Granny Smith and Gala apples produced by Bidart Bros. and that retailers not sell or serve them., To date, three firms that produce caramel apples have issued voluntary recalls after receiving notice from Bidart Bros. that there may be a connection between Bidart Bros. apples and this listeriosis outbreak. On December 24, 2014, Happy Apple Company of Washington, Missouri, voluntarily recalled Happy Apples brand caramel applesExternal with a best use by date between August 25 and November 23, 2014. On December 31, 2014, Happy Apple Company expanded the recallExternal to include Kroger brand caramel apples produced by Happy Apple Company with a best use by date between September 15 and November 18, 2014. On December 27, 2014, California Snack Foods voluntarily recalled Karm’l Dapple brand caramel applesExternal with a best use by date between August 15 and November 28, 2014. On December 29, 2014, Merb’s Candies of St. Louis, Missouri issued a voluntary recall of Merb’s Candies Bionic Apples and Double Dipped ApplesExternal that would have been available from September 8 through November 25, 2014.  Investigators are continuing to work to determine if any other brands or types of commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples are linked to illnesses and to determine the source of contamination., CDC’s Advice to Consumers continues to recommend that U.S. consumers not eat any commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples, including plain caramel apples as well as those containing nuts, sprinkles, chocolate, or other toppings, until more specific guidance can be provided. These products could have a shelf life of more than one month. CDC, the involved states, and FDA continue to work closely on this rapidly evolving investigation, and new information will be provided as it becomes available., , As of December 30, 2014, a total of 32 people infected with the outbreak strains of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from 11 states: Arizona (4), California (2), Minnesota (4), Missouri (5), Nevada (1), New Mexico (6), North Carolina (1), Texas (4), Utah (1), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (3). Dates when the Listeria strains were isolated range from October 17, 2014, to December 11, 2014. Ten illnesses have been associated with a pregnancy (occurred in a pregnant woman or her newborn infant). One fetal loss has been reported. Among people whose illnesses were not associated with a pregnancy, ages ranged from 7 to 92 years, with a median age of 66 years, and 32% were female. Three invasive illnesses (meningitis) occurred among otherwise healthy children aged 5–15 years. Thirty-one ill people have been hospitalized and six deaths have been reported. Listeriosis contributed to three of these deaths, and it is unclear whether it contributed to an additional two deaths. The sixth death was unrelated to listeriosis., Illnesses that started after December 14, 2014, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., The Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) has identified 2 cases of listeriosisExternal in Canada with the same PFGE patterns as seen in the U.S. outbreak. PHAC is working with its provincial and territorial partners to determine the source of these illnesses. CDC and FDA are working with Canadian health authorities to determine whether these illnesses are related to the U.S. outbreak., The information CDC has at this time continues to indicate that commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples may be contaminated with Listeria. Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness. In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures in the month before becoming ill. To date, 23 (88%) of the 26 ill people interviewed reported eating commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples before becoming ill. Caramel apple brands named in interviews have included Happy Apple, Carnival, and Merb’s Candies.  However, the investigation is ongoing and other brands may be identified. At this time, no illnesses related to this outbreak have been linked to apples that are not caramel-coated and not prepackaged or to caramel candy., To date, three firms that produce caramel apples have issued voluntary recalls after receiving notice from Bidart Brothers, an apple supplier, that there may be a connection between Bidart Brothers apples and this listeriosis outbreak. On December 24, 2014, Happy Apple Company of Washington, Missouri, voluntarily recalled Happy Apple brand caramel applesExternal with a best use by date between August 25 and November 23, 2014. On December 27, 2014, California Snack Foods voluntarily recalled Karm’l Dapple brand caramel applesExternal with a best use by date between August 15 and November 28, 2014. On December 29, 2014, Merb’s Candies of St. Louis, Missouri issued a voluntary recall of Merb’s Candies Bionic Apples and Double Dipped ApplesExternal that would have been available between September 8 and November 25, 2014. Investigators are continuing to work to identify if any other brands or types of commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples may be linked to illnesses and to identify the source of contamination., Although voluntary recalls have been issued for three brands of commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples, CDC’s Advice to Consumers remains the same. CDC continues to recommend that U.S. consumers not eat any commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples, including plain caramel apples as well as those containing nuts, sprinkles, chocolate, or other toppings, until more specific guidance can be provided. These products could have a shelf life of more than one month. CDC, the involved states, and FDA continue to work closely on this rapidly evolving investigation, and new information will be provided as it becomes available., , As of December 22, 2014, a total of 29 people infected with the outbreak strains of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from 10 states: Arizona (4), California (1), MinnesotaExternal (4), Missouri (5), New MexicoExternal (5), North Carolina (1), Texas (4), UtahExternal (1), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (3). Illness onset dates range from October 17, 2014, to November 27, 2014. Nine illnesses have been associated with a pregnancy (occurred in a pregnant woman or her newborn infant). No miscarriages or fetal losses have been reported. Among people whose illnesses were not associated with a pregnancy, ages ranged from 7 to 92 years, with a median age of 66 years, and 41% were female. Three invasive illnesses (meningitis) occurred among otherwise healthy children aged 5–15 years. All 29 ill people have been hospitalized and, five deaths have been reported. Listeriosis contributed to three of these deaths and it is unclear whether it contributed to a fourth. The fifth death was unrelated to listeriosis., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of people who were diagnosed each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that started after December 7, 2014, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., The information CDC has at this time indicates that commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples may be contaminated with Listeria. Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness. In interviews, ill people answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures in the month before becoming ill. To date, 20 (87%) of the 23 ill people interviewed reported eating commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples before becoming ill. At this time, no illnesses related to this outbreak have been linked to apples that are not caramel-coated and not prepackaged or to caramel candy. Although limited information is currently available about the specific brand(s) of commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples consumed, the finding that most of the ill people reported consuming these apples suggests that these Listeria infections are likely related to commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples. Investigators are rapidly working to determine specific brands or types of commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples that may be linked to illnesses and to identify the source of contamination., At this point in the investigation, CDC’s Advice to Consumers remains the same. Out of an abundance of caution, CDC recommends that U.S. consumers not eat any commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples, including plain caramel apples as well as those containing nuts, sprinkles, chocolate, or other toppings, until more specific guidance can be provided. These products could have a shelf life of more than one month. CDC, the involved states, and FDA continue to work closely on this rapidly evolving investigation, and new information will be provided as it becomes available., , CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states and with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External to investigate an outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Joint investigation efforts indicate that commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples are the likely source., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify cases that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC that identifies possible outbreaks. DNA “fingerprinting” is performed on Listeria bacteria isolated from ill persons using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. Two outbreak clusters were identified by the PFGE technique, and Listeria isolates within each cluster were found to be highly related by the WGS technique but distinct between the two clusters. CDC is investigating the two clusters together because one person was infected with both Listeria strains simultaneously and also because illnesses in the two clusters have occurred during a similar time period and in similar regions of the country., The 28 ill people included in this outbreak investigation have been reported from 10 states: Arizona (4), California (1), MinnesotaExternal (4), Missouri (5), New Mexico (5), North Carolina (1), Texas (4), Utah (1), Washington (1), and Wisconsin (2). Illness onset dates range from October 17, 2014, to November 27, 2014. Nine illnesses have been associated with a pregnancy (occurred in a pregnant woman or her newborn infant). No miscarriages or fetal losses have been reported. Among people whose illnesses were not associated with a pregnancy, ages ranged from 7 to 92 years, with a median age of 64 years, and 32% were female. Three invasive illnesses (meningitis) occurred among otherwise healthy children aged 5–15 years. Of the 26 ill persons for whom information is available, all have been hospitalized, and five deaths have been reported. Listeriosis contributed to at least four of these deaths., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who were diagnosed each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that started after December 3, 2014, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., The information CDC has at this time indicates that commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples may be contaminated with Listeria. Listeria can cause a serious, life-threatening illness. In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures in the month before becoming ill. To date, 15 (83%) of the 18 ill people interviewed reported eating commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples before becoming ill. At this time, no illnesses related to this outbreak have been linked to apples that are not caramel-coated and not prepackaged or to caramel candy. Although limited information is currently available about the specific brand(s) of commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples consumed, the finding that most of the ill people reported consuming these apples suggests that these Listeria infections are likely related to commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples. Investigators are rapidly working to determine specific brands or types of commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples that may be linked to illnesses and to identify the source of contamination., Out of an abundance of caution, CDC recommends that U.S. consumers not eat any commercially produced, prepackaged caramel apples, including plain caramel apples as well as those containing nuts, sprinkles, chocolate, or other toppings, until more specific guidance can be provided. These products could have a shelf life of more than one month. CDC, the involved states, and FDA continue to work closely on this rapidly evolving investigation, and new information will be provided as it becomes available., , , , , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '8e5760bf8eeff9c5f8fe3af7e4f9996bb10b978219d60b20f9fd51bd2d081dd7', 'headline': 'Oasis Brands, Inc. Cheese Recalls and Investigation of Human Listeriosis Cases | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2018, 12, 3, 4, 2, 21, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/cheese-10-14/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted December 4, 2014 4:30 PM ET, This investigation appears to be over.Listeria monocytogenes infection (listeriosis) is an important cause of illness in the United States. More information about listeriosis, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Listeria Web Page., On July 28, 2014, Virginia’s Division of Consolidated Laboratory Services (DCLS) identified Listeria monocytogenes in quesito casero, a type of unaged soft cheese made from pasteurized milk, produced by Oasis Brands, Inc. and collected during routine sampling. On August 4, 2014, Oasis Brands, Inc. voluntarily recalled quesito caseroExternal. On August 1, 2014, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) began inspectionsExternal at the firm’s processing facility in Miami, Florida. FDA subsequently collected environmental samples at the production facility; these samples yielded Listeria monocytogenes. As a result of these findings, on October 6, 2014, Oasis Brands, Inc. expanded the recall to include cuajada en hojaExternal (fresh curd). On October 16, 2014, Oasis Brands, Inc. announced an additional recall of various Lacteos Santa Martha and one HonduCrema brandExternal cheese and dairy products. At this time, Oasis Brands, Inc. has ceased manufacturing of all products, including the recalled products. , FDA and Virginia DCLS performed pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS) on the isolates from cheese (quesito casero) and environmental samples to further characterize the Listeria. Compared with PFGE, WGS provides a clearer distinction of genetic differences between bacteria strains. Strains that are highly related by WGS are more likely to have come from a common source., Public health investigators used PFGE and WGS to identify cases of illness that were caused by highly related strains and therefore may have been acquired through consumption of these recalled products. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network of state and local public health laboratories, CDC, and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. , Whole-genome sequences of the Listeria monocytogenes strains isolated from five ill persons were found to be highly related to sequences of the Listeria strain isolated from quesito casero cheese produced by Oasis Brands, Inc. These ill persons have been reported from four states: Georgia (1), New York (1), Tennessee (2), and Texas (1).  The first person became ill in September 2013, and four more recent illnesses occurred during June through October 2014., Four of the five ill persons were hospitalized. Three illnesses were related to a pregnancy – one of these was diagnosed in a newborn. The two other illnesses occurred among adults. One death was reported in Tennessee. All ill persons were reported to be of Hispanic ethnicity. All five ill persons reported consuming Hispanic-style soft cheese in the month before becoming ill. Two persons who were able to answer questions about specific varieties of Hispanic-style soft cheeses reported consuming quesito casero, though neither could remember the brand., The high degree of genetic similarity between isolates from ill persons and recalled cheese isolates showed that food contaminated with this strain of Listeria monocytogenes can cause serious illness. Although limited information was available about the specific cheese products consumed by ill persons, the whole genome sequencing findings, together with the cheese consumption history of the patients, suggested that these illnesses could have been related to products from Oasis Brands, Inc., This particular investigation is over. However, the recalled productsExternal may still be in peoples’ homes. Consumers unaware of the recall could continue to eat these products and possibly get sick. Listeria is an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Listeria and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection can be found on the CDC Listeria Web Page., A total of 5 ill persons infected with Listeria monocytogenes were reported from 4 states since June 2014. Since the initial announcement on October 29, 2014, 2 additional ill persons were reported from Georgia (1) and Tennessee (1)., Illness onset dates ranged from September 2013 to October 2014. Four of the five ill persons were hospitalized. One death was reported in Tennessee. Three illnesses were related to a pregnancy – one of these was diagnosed in a newborn. All ill persons were reported to be of Hispanic ethnicity and reported consuming Hispanic-style soft cheese. Two persons who were able to answer questions about specific varieties of Hispanic-style soft cheeses reported consuming quesito casero, though neither could remember the brand., This investigation appears to be over. However, Listeria is still an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Listeria, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Listeria Web Page., On July 28, 2014, Virginia’s Division of Consolidated Laboratory Services (DCLS) identified Listeria monocytogenes in quesito casero, a type of unaged soft cheese, produced by Oasis Brands, Inc. and collected during routine sampling. On August 4, 2014, Oasis Brands, Inc. voluntarily recalled quesito caseroExternal. On August 1, 2014, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) began inspections at the firm’s processing facility in Miami, Florida. FDA subsequently collected environmental samples at the production facility; these samples yielded Listeria monocytogenes. As a result of these findings, on October 6, 2014, Oasis Brands, Inc. expanded the recall to include cuajada en hojaExternal (fresh curd). On October 16, 2014, Oasis Brands, Inc. announced an additional recall of various lots of Lacteos Santa Martha productsExternal., FDA and Virginia DCLS performed pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS) on the isolates from cheese (quesito casero) and environmental samples to further characterize the Listeria. Compared with PFGE, WGS provides a clearer distinction of genetic differences between bacteria strains. Strains that are highly related by WGS are more likely to have come from a common source., Public health investigators used PFGE and WGS to identify cases of illness that were caused by highly related strains and therefore may have been acquired through consumption of these recalled products. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network of state and local public health laboratories, CDC, and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., Whole-genome sequences of the Listeria monocytogenes strains isolated from three ill persons were found to be highly related to sequences of the Listeria strain isolated from quesito casero cheese produced by Oasis Brands, Inc. These ill persons have been reported from three states: New York (1), Tennessee (1), and Texas (1). The first person became ill on September 13, 2013, and two more recent illnesses occurred on June 25, 2014, and August 13, 2014., All three ill persons were hospitalized. One of the illnesses was related to a pregnancy and was diagnosed in a newborn. The two other illnesses occurred among adults. One death was reported by Tennessee. All ill persons were reported to be of Hispanic ethnicity. All three ill persons reported consuming Hispanic-style soft cheese in the month before becoming ill. The two persons who were able to answer questions about specific varieties of Hispanic-style soft cheeses both reported consuming quesito casero, though neither could remember the brand., The high degree of genetic similarity between isolates from ill persons and recalled cheese isolates shows that food contaminated with this strain of Listeria monocytogenes can cause serious illness. Although limited information is available about the specific cheese products consumed by ill persons, the whole genome sequencing findings, together with the cheese consumption history of the patients suggests that these illnesses could have been related to products from Oasis Brands, Inc., CDC, the states involved, and FDA continue to work closely on this ongoing investigation, and new information will be provided when available., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '7c706c1e6c997f83096016c4a3c9c89e9827174169546afcff6dadecdf69ae88', 'headline': 'Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. Sprouts and Investigation of Human Listeriosis Cases', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2018, 12, 3, 4, 2, 15, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/bean-sprouts-11-14/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted January 27, 2015 10:30 AM ET, The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) isolated Listeria monocytogenes from mung bean sprouts and sprout irrigation water samples obtained during a routine assignment on August 13, 2014, at Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. Based on this finding, FDA conducted an inspectionExternal of the facility from August 12, 2014, through September 3, 2014, and isolated Listeria monocytogenes from 25 environmental swabs obtained during the inspection. FDA also issued a reportExternal with 12 inspectional observations, citing the firm for numerous unsanitary conditions and poor equipment maintenance., On August 28, 2014, Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. agreed to conduct a voluntary recall of mung bean sprouts and notified customers by telephone. Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. ceased production of sprouts on August 28, 2014, and resumed production on September 15, 2014 after Listeria monocytogenes was not identified in the finished product. From October 7, 2014, to October 31, 2014, FDA re-inspected the facility and identified Listeria monocytogenes in nine environmental swabs. FDA investigators issued another report to the firm, noting 12 inspectional observations involving unsanitary conditions and poor equipment maintenance. Nine of these observations had persisted from the previous inspection., On October 14, 2014, Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. ceased production of all products except mung bean and soy bean sprouts. On November 7, 2014, Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. verbally agreed to close their facility and to cease production and distribution of sprouts. The facility is no longer in production. Sprouts produced by Wholesome Soy Products Inc. are likely no longer available for purchase or consumption given the 5-day shelf life reported by the facility., FDA performed pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS) on the isolates from mung bean sprouts and environmental samples from Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. to further characterize the Listeria isolates. Compared with PFGE, WGS provides a clearer distinction of genetic differences among Listeria isolates, and strains that are highly related by WGS are more likely to have a common source., Public health investigators used PFGE and WGS to identify cases of illness that were caused by highly related strains and therefore possibly related to products made at Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. This included data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories that are coordinated by CDC. , Whole-genome sequences of Listeria strains isolated from five ill people were found to be highly related to sequences of the Listeria strain isolated from mung bean sprouts produced by Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. These ill people have been reported from two states: Illinois (4) and Michigan (1).  They became ill from June through August 2014. All five people were hospitalized, and two deaths were reported. Two of the five people were interviewed, and both reported consuming bean sprouts in the month before becoming ill., The high degree of genetic similarity between isolates from ill people and from mung bean sprouts and environmental samples collected at Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. shows that the food was contaminated with a strain of Listeria monocytogenes that can cause serious illness. Although limited information is available about the specific sprout products that the ill people consumed, the whole genome sequencing findings, together with the sprout consumption history of two patients and inspection findings at the firm, suggest that these illnesses could be related to products from Wholesome Soy Products, Inc., This investigation is closed. However, Listeria is still an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Listeria and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection can be found on the CDC Listeria Web Page., The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) isolated Listeria monocytogenes from mung bean sprouts and sprout irrigation water samples obtained during a routine assignment on August 13, 2014, at Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. Based on this finding, FDA conducted an inspectionExternal of the facility from August 12, 2014, through September 3, 2014, and isolated Listeria monocytogenes from 25 environmental swabs obtained during the inspection. FDA also issued a report with 12 inspectional observations, citing the firm for numerous unsanitary conditions and poor equipment maintenance., On August 28, 2014, Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. agreed to conduct a voluntary recall of mung bean sprouts and notified customers by telephone. Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. ceased production of sprouts on August 28, 2014, and resumed production on September 15, 2014 after Listeria monocytogenes was not identified in finished product. From October 7, 2014, to October 31, 2014, FDA re-inspected the facility and identified Listeria monocytogenes in nine environmental swabs. FDA investigators issued another reportExternal to the firm, noting 12 inspectional observations involving unsanitary conditions and poor equipment maintenance. Nine of these observations had persisted from the previous inspection., On October 14, 2014, Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. ceased production of all products except mung bean and soy bean sprouts. On November 7, 2014, Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. verbally agreed to close their facility, cease production and distribution of sprouts, and recall sprouts that are already on the market. FDA continues to work with the company to ensure that they do not produce sprouts until FDA has ensured that this strain of Listeria is sufficiently controlled. Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH) is working to embargo all product at Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. and the other wholesalers that presently have product. In addition, IDPH has asked local health departments to contact facilities in their jurisdictions that have received the product to have the facilities either hold the product or destroy per the CDC recommendations., FDA performed pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS) on the isolates from mung bean sprouts and environmental samples from Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. to further characterize the Listeria isolates. Compared with PFGE, WGS provides a clearer distinction of genetic differences among Listeria isolates (strains that are highly related by WGS are more likely to have a common source)., Public health investigators used PFGE and WGS to identify cases of illness that were caused by highly related strains and therefore possibly related to products made at Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. This included data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network of state and local public health laboratories, CDC, and federal food regulatory laboratories that perform molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. , Whole-genome sequences of Listeria strains isolated from five ill people were found to be highly related to sequences of the Listeria strain isolated from mung bean sprouts produced by Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. These ill people have been reported from two states: Illinois (4) and Michigan (1).  They became ill from June through August 2014. All five people were hospitalized, and two deaths were reported. Two of the five people were interviewed, and both reported consuming bean sprouts in the month before becoming ill., The high degree of genetic similarity between isolates from ill people and from mung bean sprouts and environmental samples collected at Wholesome Soy Products, Inc. shows that the food was contaminated with a strain of Listeria monocytogenes that can cause serious illness. Although limited information is available about the specific sprout products that the ill people consumed, the whole genome sequencing findings, together with the sprout consumption history of two patients and inspection findings at the firm, suggest that these illnesses could be related to products from Wholesome Soy Products, Inc., CDC, the states involved, and FDA continue to work closely on this ongoing investigation, and new information will be provided when available., Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '8c2928c2f5fa488df5daea166feefdb1f4f753d30e1f498f82a3f7490b84787b', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Listeriosis Linked to Roos Foods Dairy Products | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2018, 12, 3, 4, 0, 58, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/cheese-02-14/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted April 18, 2014 9:30 AM ET, This investigation is closed.Listeria monocytogenes infection (listeriosis) is an important cause of illness in the United States. More information about listeriosis, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Listeria Web Page., CDC collaborated with public health and regulatory officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Joint investigation efforts indicated that cheese products made by Roos Foods of Kenton, Delaware were the likely source., Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Listeria obtained through testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may have been part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) of L. monocytogenes strains isolated from patients and from Roos Foods cheese products was performed. This WGS testing was available as part of a Listeria WGS project being conducted by CDC, FDA, the US Department of Agriculture, the National Institutes of Health, and state partners. The project involves sequencing of all US Listeria isolates from sick people and food in as close to real-time as possible. WGS provides genetic information that allows investigators to rapidly identify differences among isolates. Compared with PFGE, WGS provides clearer distinction between cases and foods that are likely part of a given outbreak and those that are not., A total of eight persons infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes were reported from five states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: California (1), Maryland (7). No new ill persons were reported since the last update on March 12, 2014., Among persons for whom information was available, dates that illness was diagnosed ranged from August 1, 2013 to November 27, 2013. Seven of the eight ill persons were hospitalized. Five of the illnesses were related to a pregnancy, including four illnesses in two mother–newborn pairs, and one illness in only the newborn. The three other illnesses occurred among adults. One death was reported in California. All ill persons were reported to be of Hispanic ethnicity., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicated that cheeses manufactured by Roos Foods was the likely source of this outbreak of listeriosis., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures in the month before becoming ill. All five adults associated with this outbreak in Maryland reported consuming soft or semi-soft Hispanic-style cheese and all shopped at different locations of same food store chain (Chain A). Three of five adults reported consuming a cheese produced by Roos Foods., Testing of cheese products collected from Chain A stores was performed in Maryland and Virginia. Virginia’s Division of Consolidated Laboratory Services (DCLS) identified the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes in a sample of Cuajada en Terron (fresh cheese curd) collected by the Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services (VDACS) from a Chain A store. This cheese was produced by Roos Foods of Kenton, Delaware and was later repackaged in the Chain A store. VDACS issued a press releaseExternal on February 15, 2014 instructing persons who purchased this product not to consume the cheese and to discard any remaining product., VDACS subsequently collected pre-packaged Cuajada en Terron produced by Roos Foods from Chain A that was not repackaged in the store. The Virginia DCLS identified the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes from these samples; a consumer advisoryExternal was issued on February 21, 2014. In addition, the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene tested samples of pre-packaged cheese products purchased at Chain A stores; cultures of those products produced by Roos Foods also yielded the outbreak strain Listeria monocytogenes. Roos Foods cheese products were labeled as made with pasteurized milk. On February 19, 2014, the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene issued a warning to consumersExternal to not eat any cheese products made by Roos Foods. The District of Columbia issued a similar warningExternal to consumers on February 20., In working with FDA, on February 23, Roos Foods voluntarily recalledExternal all lots of its Cuajada En Terron, Cuajada/Cuajadita Cacera, Cuajada Fresca, Queso Fresca Round, and Queso Dura Viejo hard cheeses marketed under its Mexicana, Amigo, and Santa Rosa De Lima brands. These cheeses were manufactured or repacked by Roos. Roos Foods also recalled Queso Fresco marketed under the Anita brand. These products were distributed through retail stores in Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia, including many retail stores other than Chain A., On February 25, 2014, Roos Foods voluntarily expandedExternal their February 23 recall to include all lots of Amigo and Mexicana brands of Requesón (part-skim ricotta) in 15 oz. and 16 oz. plastic containers and all lots of Amigo, Mexicana, and Santa Rosa De Lima brands of Queso de Huerta (fresh curd cheese). On March 1, 2014, Roos Foods further expanded and clarifiedExternal the description of products in its recall., On March 11, 2014, FDA suspendedExternal the food facility registration of Roos Foods in response to this outbreak and findings of unsanitary conditions at the company’s facility during an FDA inspection from February 18–March 4, 2014. A company without a food facility registration cannot distribute any food products. During the inspection, FDA collected environmental swabs from different areas of the facility, including the cheese processing room and various pieces of equipment. Several of the swabs matched the outbreak strain., This outbreak appears to be over. Listeria monocytogenes infection (listeriosis) is an important cause of illness in the United States. More information about listeriosis, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Listeria Web Page., A total of eight persons infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes were reported from five states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: California (1), Maryland (7). No new ill persons were reported since the last update on March 12, 2014., Among persons for whom information was available, dates that illness was diagnosed ranged from August 1, 2013 to November 27, 2013. Seven of the eight ill persons were hospitalized. Five of the illnesses were related to a pregnancy, including four illnesses in two mother–newborn pairs, and one illness in only the newborn. The three other illnesses occurred among adults. One death was reported in California. All ill persons were reported to be of Hispanic ethnicity., On March 11, 2014, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) suspendedExternal the food facility registration of Roos Foods in response to this outbreak and findings of unsanitary conditions at the company’s facility during an FDA inspection from February 18–March 4, 2014. A company without a food facility registration cannot distribute any food products., Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) of Listeria monocytogenes strains isolated from Roos Foods cheese products has been performed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Virginia’s Division of Consolidated Laboratory Services. These strains were found to be highly related by WGS to the Listeria strains isolated from patients in this outbreak, adding further confidence that cheese products produced by Roos Foods were a likely source of the outbreak., These WGS results were available as part of a Listeria WGS project being conducted by CDC, FDA, the US Department of Agriculture, the National Center for Biotechnology Information/National Institutes of Health, and state and international partners. This project involves sequencing of all US Listeria isolates from sick people and food in as close to real-time as possible. WGS provides genetic information that allows investigators to rapidly identify differences among isolates. Compared with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), WGS provides clearer distinction between cases and foods that are likely part of a given outbreak and those that are not., On March 1, 2014, Roos Foods expanded and clarifiedExternal the description of products in its recall, which was initiated on February 23External and expanded on February 25External. The recall includes all lots and all product sizes and containers of these Amigo, Anita, Mexicana, and Santa Rose de Lima brands of cheeses:, These cheeses were packaged in various sized clear plastic wrapped Styrofoam trays, clear plastic wrapped, clear plastic vacuum package, and clear rigid plastic containers.,  Roos Foods is also recalling all product sizes and containers of the following sour creams and butter:, These sour creams were packaged in various sized white plastic tubs, clear plastic bags, clear plastic pouches, and clear plastic jars. The recalled products were distributed through retail stores in Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Virginia, and the District of Columbia., FDA issued a noticeExternal of the additional expanded recall on March 2 with advice to consumers, retailers, and restaurants., On February 25, 2014, Roos Foods voluntarily expandedExternal their February 23 recallExternal to include all lots of Amigo and Mexicana brands of Requesón (part-skim ricotta) in 15 oz. and 16 oz. plastic containers and all lots of Amigo, Mexicana, and Santa Rosa De Lima brands of Queso de Huerta (fresh curd cheese). , FDA issued a noticeExternal of the expanded recall on February 25 with advice to consumers, retailers, and restaurants., Consumers should not eat any of the following brands of cheese manufactured or repackaged by Roos Foods of Kenton, Delaware: Amigo, Anita, Mexicana, and Santa Rosa De Lima.  These products were distributed through retail stores in Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures in the month before becoming ill. All patients in Maryland reported consuming soft or semi-soft Hispanic-style cheese and all shopped at different locations of the same Hispanic-style local food store chain (Chain A). Testing of cheese products collected from Chain A stores was performed in Maryland and Virginia. , Virginia’s Division of Consolidated Laboratory Services (DCLS) identified Listeria monocytogenes in a sample of Caujada en Terron (fresh cheese curd) collected by the Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services (VDACS) from a Chain A store. The strain isolated from this product was indistinguishable by PFGE from the Listeria strainisolated from the 8 patients (outbreak strain). This cheese was produced by Roos Foods of Kenton, Delaware and was later repackaged in the Chain A store.  VDACS issued a press releaseExternal on February 15, 2014, instructing persons who purchased this product not to consume the cheese and to discard any remaining product.  , CDC is collaborating with public health and regulatory officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis)., Public health investigators are using data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network of state and local public health laboratories, CDC, and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak.  The PulseNet data consists of DNA “fingerprints” of Listeria obtained through testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE. We are supplementing PFGE data with whole-genome sequencing.  The 5 isolates already sequenced are closely related., A total of 8 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from two states. The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: California (1), Maryland (7)., Among persons for whom information is available, dates that illness was diagnosed range from August 1, 2013 to November 27, 2013. Seven of the eight ill persons were hospitalized. Five of the illnesses were related to a pregnancy; two of these were diagnosed in two mother–newborn pairs, and one in only the newborn. The three other illnesses occurred among adults.  One death was reported in California.  All ill persons were reported to be of Hispanic ethnicity., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who were diagnosed each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Clinical specimens that were collected after February 1, 2014 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks., About 800 laboratory-confirmed cases of listeriosis are reported each year in the United States, and typically 3 or 4 outbreaks are identified and reported to CDC annually. Some foods that have been linked to outbreaks in recent years include several types of cheeses (Mexican-style cheeses, soft ripened cheeses, and imported ricotta salata cheese), whole cantaloupe, raw sprouts, and precut celery., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures in the month before becoming ill. All patients in Maryland reported consuming soft or semi-soft Hispanic-style cheese and all shopped at different locations of same food store chain (Chain A). Testing of cheese products collected from Chain A stores was performed in Maryland and Virginia. , Virginia’s Division of Consolidated Laboratory Services (DCLS) identified the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes in a sample of Caujada en Terron (fresh cheese curd) collected by the Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services (VDACS) from a Chain A store. This cheese was likely produced by Roos Foods of Kenton, Delaware and was later repackaged in the Chain A store.  VDACS issued a press releaseExternal on February 15, 2014 instructing persons who purchased this product not to consume the cheese and to discard any remaining product.  , VDACS subsequently collected pre-packaged Caujada en Terron produced by Roos Foods from Chain A that was not repackaged in the store. The Virginia DCLS identified Listeria monocytogenes from these samples; a consumer advisoryExternal was issued on February 21, 2014. DNA fingerprinting and whole-genome sequencing will be performed on these isolates. In addition, the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene has tested samples of pre-packaged cheese products purchased at Chain A stores; those products produced by Roos Foods are preliminarily positive for Listeria monocytogenes. On February 19, 2014, the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene issued a warning to consumersExternal to not eat any cheese products made by Roos Foods. Their warning stated that Roos Foods cheese products are sold under brand names Santa Rosa de Lima, Amigo, Mexicana, Suyapa, La Chapina, and La Purisima Crema Nica. , FDA posted information about the investigation on February 21, 2014External, Further investigation is needed to determine the source of the patients’ illnesses, including whether the illnesses were related to food products that tested positive for Listeria., , , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'ce5a4c3e1281ca0791f9214152d71306d501cde37f2d94c5d1078533f0e5c759', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Listeriosis Linked to Crave Brothers Farmstead Cheeses | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2018, 12, 3, 4, 1, 6, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/cheese-07-13/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted September 24, 2013 1:00 PM ET, This investigation is closed.Listeria monocytogenes infection (listeriosis) is an important cause of illness in the United States. More information about listeriosis, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Listeria Web Page., CDC collaborated with public health and regulatory officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Joint investigation efforts indicated that Les Frères, Petit Frère, and Petit Frère with Truffles cheeses made by Crave Brothers Farmstead Cheese Company of Waterloo, Wisconsin was the likely source., Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Listeria obtained through testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may have been part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. The DNA fingerprint of the outbreak strain is typically associated with about 14 cases per year, even in the absence of a recognized outbreak. For this reason, whole genome sequencing, a highly discriminatory subtyping method, was also used to define the outbreak strain. Whole genome sequencing helped clarify which patients’ illnesses were related to the outbreak., A total of six persons infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes were reported from five states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Illinois (1), Indiana (1), Minnesota (2), Ohio (1), and Texas (1). No new ill persons were reported since the last update on August 22, 2013., Among persons for whom information was available, dates that illness was diagnosed ranged from May 20, 2013 to July 7, 2013. All six ill persons were hospitalized. Ill persons ranged in age from 30 years to 67 years, with a median age of 55 years, and 83% were female. One death was reported in Minnesota. In addition, one illness in a pregnant woman resulted in a miscarriage., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicated that cheeses manufactured by Crave Brothers Farmstead Cheese Company was the likely source of this outbreak of listeriosis., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures in the month before becoming ill. Information about specific cheeses consumed was available for five of the six ill persons. Of those, all five either definitely or probably ate Les Frères cheese made by Crave Brothers before getting sick., On July 3, 2013, Crave Brothers Farmstead Cheese Company voluntarily recalledExternal its Les Frères, Petit Frère, and Petit Frère with Truffles cheeses with make dates of July 1, 2013 or earlier due to possible Listeria monocytogenes contamination. The recalled cheeses were distributed nationwide through retail and food service outlets, as well as by mail orders., Between July 2 and July 10, 2013, FDA conducted an inspection at the firm’s processing facility in cooperation with the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture.  During that inspection, FDA collected a sample of Petit Frère with Truffles that was found to contain Listeria monocytogenes with the same DNA fingerprint as the outbreak strain. Laboratory tests conducted by the Minnesota Department of Agriculture on samples of Les Frères and Petit Frère with Truffles cheeses made by Crave Brothers from two retail stores also indicated the presence of Listeria monocytogenes with the same DNA fingerprint. , As of September 24, 2013, the firm is not in production. FDA and the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture are working closely to review the firm’s corrective actions before the firm is authorized to resume cheese production., A total of six persons infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes were reported from five states. The number of ill people identified in each state was as follows: Illinois (1), Indiana (1), Minnesota (2), Ohio (1), and Texas (1). No new ill persons were reported since the last update on August 22, 2013., Among persons for whom information was available, dates that illness was diagnosed ranged from May 20, 2013 to July 7, 2013. All six ill persons were hospitalized. Ill persons ranged in age from 30 years to 67 years, with a median age of 55 years, and 83% were female. One death was reported in Minnesota. In addition, one illness in a pregnant woman resulted in a miscarriage., A total of six persons infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from five states. Since the last update, one ill person has been reported from Texas., Among persons for whom information is available, dates that illness was diagnosed range from May 20, 2013 to July 7, 2013. All six ill persons were hospitalized. Ill persons range in age from 30 years to 67 years, with a median age of 55 years, and 83% are female. One death was reported in Minnesota. In addition, one illness in a pregnant woman resulted in a miscarriage., Clinical specimens that were collected after August 10, 2013 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks., Information about specific cheeses consumed is available for five of the six ill persons. Of those, all five either definitely or probably ate Les Frères cheese made by Crave Brothers before getting sick., Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Listeria bacteria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak (PulseNet). The DNA fingerprint of the outbreak strain is typically associated with about 14 cases per year, even in the absence of a recognized outbreak. For this reason, whole genome sequencing, a novel highly discriminatory subtyping method, is also being used to define the outbreak strain. Whole genome sequencing has helped clarify which patients’ illnesses are related to the outbreak., Between July 2 and July 10, 2013, the FDA conducted an inspection at the firm’s processing facility in cooperation with the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture. During that inspection, the FDA collected a sample of Petit Frère with Truffles that was found to contain Listeria monocytogenes with the same DNA fingerprint as the outbreak strain., The firm stopped production and the FDA and the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture are monitoring corrective action being made by the firm., CDC is collaborating with public health and regulatory officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). The joint investigation indicates that Les Frères, Petit Frère, and Petit Frère with Truffles cheeses made by Crave Brothers Farmstead Cheese Company of Waterloo, Wisconsin is the likely source of this outbreak., Public health investigators are using DNA “fingerprints” of Listeria obtained through testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They are using data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., A total of five persons infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from four states. The number of ill people identified in each state is as follows: Illinois (1), Indiana (1), Minnesota (2), and Ohio (1)., Among persons for whom information is available, dates that illness was diagnosed range from May 20, 2013 to June 17, 2013. All five ill persons were hospitalized. Ill persons range in age from 31 years to 67 years, with a median age of 58 years, and 80% are female. One illness in a pregnant woman resulted in a miscarriage. One death was reported in Minnesota., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who were diagnosed each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Clinical specimens that were collected after June 22, 2013 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks., About 800 laboratory-confirmed cases of listeriosis are reported each year in the United States, and typically 3 or 4 outbreaks are identified and reported to CDC annually. Some foods that have been linked to outbreaks in recent years are Mexican-style soft cheeses, imported ricotta salata cheese, whole cantaloupe, raw sprouts, and precut celery. , Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicate that Les Frères, Petit Frère, and Petit Frère with Truffles cheeses manufactured by Crave Brothers Farmstead Cheese Company is the likely source of this outbreak of listeriosis., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures in the month before becoming ill. All five ill persons reported consuming a soft cheese. Information about specific cheeses consumed is available for four of the ill persons. Of those, three either definitely or probably ate Les Frères cheese made by Crave Brothers before getting sick. Investigation of specific types of cheeses consumed by other ill persons is ongoing., Laboratory tests conducted by the Minnesota Department of Agriculture on samples of Les Frères and Petit Frère with Truffles cheeses made by Crave Brothers from two retail stores indicate the presence of the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes.  Further testing and confirmation of the results are pending., On July 3, 2013, Crave Brothers Farmstead Cheese Company of Waterloo, Wisconsin voluntarily recalledExternal its Les Frères, Petit Frère, and Petit Frère with Truffles cheeses with make dates of July 1, 2013 or earlier due to possible Listeria monocytogenes contamination. The recalled cheeses were distributed nationwide through retail and foodservice outlets as well as by mail orders., The FDA is conducting an inspection at Crave Brothers’ processing facility in coordination with the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture. FDA is working closely with CDC, Crave Brothers, and public health authorities in states where illnesses occurred to determine the exact cause of contamination., , , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '2f30c83be29b12af245266385f2ee758699307d59aba1c40c4ba5a6f4b40b8d1', 'headline': 'Listeriosis Infections linked to Marte Brand Frescolina Ricotta Salata Cheese | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2018, 12, 3, 4, 0, 45, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/cheese-09-12/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted November 21, 2012 2:30 PM ET, This investigation is closed.Listeria monocytogenes infection (listeriosis) is an important cause of illness in the United States. More information about listeriosis, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Listeria Web Page., CDC collaborated with public health and regulatory officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Joint investigation efforts indicated that ricotta salata cheese was the likely source., Public health investigators used DNA “fingerprints” of Listeria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that were part of this outbreak. They used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., A total of 22 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes were reported from 13 states and the District of Columbia. The number of ill people identified in each location was as follows: California (3), Colorado (1), District of Columbia (1), Maryland (3), Massachusetts (1), Minnesota (1), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (3), New Mexico (1), New York (1), Ohio (1), Pennsylvania (2), Virginia (2), and Washington (1)., Among persons for whom information is available, dates that illness was diagnosed ranged from March 28, 2012 to October 6, 2012. Twenty ill persons were hospitalized. Nine of the illnesses were related to a pregnancy; three of these were diagnosed in newborns. The other 13 ill persons ranged in age from 30 years to 87 years, with a median age of 77 years, and 54% were female. Four deaths were reported, one each from Minnesota, New York, Nebraska, and California. In Nebraska and California, public health officials determined that the deaths were related to listeriosis. In Minnesota and New York, public health officials did not report listeriosis as a cause of death because it was not listed as such on the death certificates. One fetal loss also was reported., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicated that Frescolina Marte brand ricotta salata cheese imported from Italy and distributed by Forever Cheese, Inc. was the likely source of this outbreak of listeriosis., In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures in the month before becoming ill. Twelve (80%) of 15 ill persons interviewed using the Listeria Initiative questionnaire reported consuming a soft cheese. Ten (91%) of 11 ill persons who could provide information about packaging of cheeses reported consuming cheese that had been cut and repackaged at a retail location. Seven cases were linked to consumption of Frescolina Marte brand ricotta salata., The investigation was complex because ill persons reported consuming many different cheese brands and types from many different retail locations. No one cheese was initially reported by the majority of ill persons, suggesting that cross-contamination of other cheeses through cutting boards or utensils played a role. The investigation focused on identifying intact cheeses shipped to multiple retail locations where, in the cutting process, they could have cross-contaminated other cheeses purchased by ill persons., FDA isolated the outbreak strain of Listeria from a sample of uncut Frescolina Marte brand ricotta salata cheese, which was imported from Italy and distributed by Forever Cheese, Inc. The outbreak strain was also isolated from other types of soft cheese that had already been cut and repackaged., No new cases were reported since the previous case count update on October 26, 2012. A total of 22 persons infected with the outbreak-associated strain of Listeria monocytogenes were reported from 13 states and the District of Columbia. , A total of 22 persons infected with the outbreak-associated strain of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from 13 states and the District of Columbia. The 2 new cases are from Virginia (1) and Massachusetts (1)., Among persons for whom information is available, dates when clinical specimens were collected range from March 28, 2012 to October 6, 2012. Twenty ill persons reported being hospitalized. Nine of the illnesses were related to a pregnancy; three of these illnesses were diagnosed in newborns. The other 13 ill persons range in age from 30 years to 87 years, with a median age of 77 years, and 54% of them are female., Four deaths have been reported, one each from Minnesota, New York, Nebraska, and California. Listeriosis did not contribute to the death in Minnesota, but contributed to at least two of the other deaths. One fetal loss also has been reported., Results of testing of clinical specimens that were collected after October 8, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. The recalled cheese should be off store shelves now because the recall began on September 10, 2012, and was expanded on September 14, 2012. However, more ill persons may be reported because up to 2 months can elapse between eating contaminated food and developing listeriosis., A total of 20 persons infected with the outbreak-associated strain of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from 12 states and the District of Columbia. The two new cases are from California., Among persons for whom information is available, dates when clinical specimens were collected range from March 28, 2012 to September 19, 2012. Nineteen ill persons reported being hospitalized. Nine of the illnesses were related to a pregnancy; three of these illnesses were diagnosed in newborns. The other 11 ill persons range in age from 30 years to 87 years, with a median age of 77 years, and 55% of them are female., Four deaths have been reported, one each from Minnesota, New York, Nebraska, and California. Listeriosis did not contribute to the death in Minnesota, but contributed to at least two of the other deaths. One fetal loss also has been reported., Results of testing of clinical specimens that were collected after September 24, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. The recalled cheese should be off store shelves now because the recall began on September 10, 2012, and was expanded on September 14, 2012. However, more ill persons may be reported because up to 2 months can elapse between eating contaminated food and developing listeriosis., A total of 18 persons infected with the outbreak-associated strain of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from 12 states and the District of Columbia. The 3 new cases are from New Jersey (2) and Pennsylvania (1)., Among persons for whom information is available, dates when clinical specimens were collected range from March 28, 2012 to September 5, 2012. All 18 ill persons reported being hospitalized. Six of the illnesses were related to a pregnancy; two of these illnesses were diagnosed in newborns. The other 12 ill persons range in age from 30 years to 87 years, with a median age of 75 years, and 58% percent of them are female., Three deaths have been reported, one each from Nebraska, New York, and Minnesota. Listeriosis did not contribute to the death in Minnesota, but contributed to at least one of the other deaths. One fetal loss has been reported., Results of testing of clinical specimens that were collected after September 8, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. The recalled cheese should be off store shelves now because the recall began on September 10, 2012, and was expanded on September 14, 2012. However, more ill persons may be reported because up to 2 months can elapse between eating contaminated food and developing listeriosis., A total of 15 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from 12 states and the District of Columbia. This includes one new case from Washington state., Among persons for whom information is available, illness onset dates range from March 28, 2012 to August 30, 2012. All 15 ill persons reported being hospitalized. Four of the illnesses were related to a pregnancy; two of these illnesses were diagnosed in newborns. The other 11 ill persons range in age from 30 years to 87 years, with a median age of 77 years, and 64% percent of them are female.  No fetal losses have been reported. Three deaths have been reported. Listeriosis contributed to at least one of the deaths in Nebraska and New York, but did not contribute to the death in Minnesota., Results of testing of clinical specimens that were collected after September 4, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., CDC is collaborating with public health and regulatory officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Listeria monocytogenes infections (listeriosis). Joint investigation efforts indicate that ricotta salata cheese is the likely source., Public health investigators are using DNA “fingerprints” of Listeria obtained through diagnostic testing with pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, or PFGE, to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. They are using data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., A total of 14 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from 11 states and the District of Columbia. The number of ill people identified in each location is as follows: California (1), Colorado (1), District of Columbia (1), Maryland (3), Minnesota (1), Nebraska (1), New Jersey (1), New Mexico (1), New York (1), Ohio (1), Pennsylvania (1), and Virginia (1)., Among persons for whom information is available, dates that illness was diagnosed range from March 28, 2012 to August 30, 2012. All 14 ill persons were hospitalized. Four of the illnesses were related to a pregnancy; two of these were diagnosed in newborns. The other 10 ill persons ranged in age from 56 years to 87 years, with a median age of 79 years, and 55% were female. No fetal losses have been reported. Three deaths have been reported; one each in Minnesota, Nebraska, and New York. Listeriosis contributed to at least one of the deaths in Nebraska and New York, but did not contribute to the death in Minnesota., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who were diagnosed each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Clinical specimens that were collected after August 26, 2012 might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., About 800 laboratory-confirmed cases of listeriosis are reported each year in the United States and typically 3 or 4 outbreaks are identified and reported to CDC. Some foods that have been linked to outbreaks in recent years are Mexican-style soft cheeses, cantaloupe, sprouts, celery, and ready-to-eat deli meat., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback investigations conducted by officials in local, state, and federal public health, agriculture, and regulatory agencies indicate that imported Marte brand Frescolina ricotta salata cheese distributed by Forever Cheese, Inc. is the likely source of this outbreak of listeriosis. In interviews, ill persons answered questions about foods consumed and other exposures in the month before becoming ill. Twelve (86%) of 14 ill persons interviewed reported consuming a soft cheese. All six ill persons who could provide information about packaging of cheeses reported consuming cheese that had been cut and repackaged at a retail location. The investigation is complex because ill persons reported consuming many different cheeses from many different retail locations. No one cheese was reported by the majority of ill persons, suggesting that cross-contamination of other cheeses through cutting boards and utensils may have played a role. The investigation focused on identifying intact cheeses shipped to multiple retail locations where ill persons purchased cut and repackaged cheese., FDA identified the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes bacteria in a sample of uncut imported Frescolina Marte brand ricotta salata cheese distributed by Forever Cheese, Inc. FDA is working closely with CDC, the firm involved, and public health authorities in states where illnesses occurred to determine the exact cause of contamination., , , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '020f73eaad9341515207570581adde2628b1f24da0c2a0223e01fd3b2537ac1f', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Listeriosis Linked to Whole Cantaloupes from Jensen Farms, Colorado | Listeria | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2018, 12, 3, 4, 2, 5, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/listeria/outbreaks/cantaloupes-jensen-farms/index.html', 'main_text': 'Posted August 27, 2012 10:30 AM ET, This investigation is closed.Listeria monocytogenes infection (listeriosis) is an important cause of illness in the United States. More information about listeriosis, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Listeria website., CDC collaborated with public health officials in numerous states, including Colorado, as well as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of listeriosis that occurred from August through October, 2011. Listeriosis is a serious infection usually caused by eating food contaminated with the bacterium Listeria monocytogenes. Investigators used DNA analysis of Listeria bacteria isolated from patients to identify cases of illness that may have been part of this outbreak. The Listeria bacteria were obtained from diagnostic testing; pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) was used to determine DNA fingerprint patterns. Investigators used data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections., After the update on December 8, investigators learned that a Listeria isolate that had been isolated from a sample of cut cantaloupe from a patient’s home during the outbreak investigation had a PFGE pattern combination that was different from the four known pattern combinations in the outbreak. A search of the PulseNet database for matching DNA fingerprint patterns from isolates collected during the outbreak time period identified one human matching isolate. The person from whom the Listeria was isolated reported eating cantaloupe before becoming ill; this case was added to the case count., A total of 147 persons infected with any of the five outbreak-associated subtypes of Listeria monocytogenes were reported to CDC from 28 states. The number of infected persons identified in each state was as follows: Alabama (1), Arkansas (1), California (4), Colorado (40), Idaho (2), Illinois (4), Indiana (3), Iowa (1), Kansas (11), Louisiana (2), Maryland (1), Missouri (7), Montana (2), Nebraska (6), Nevada (1), New Mexico (15), New York (2), North Dakota (2), Oklahoma (12), Oregon (1), Pennsylvania (1), South Dakota (1), Texas (18), Utah (1), Virginia (1), West Virginia (1), Wisconsin (2), and Wyoming (4)., Among persons for whom information was available, reported illness onset ranged from July 31, 2011 through October 27, 2011. Ages ranged from &lt;1 to 96 years, with a median age of 78 years. Most ill persons were over 60 years old. Fifty-eight percent of ill persons were female. Among the 145 ill persons with available information on whether they were hospitalized, 143 (99%) were hospitalized. Thirty-three outbreak-associated deaths were reported: Colorado (9), Indiana (1), Kansas (3), Louisiana (2), Maryland (1), Missouri (3), Montana (1), Nebraska (1), New Mexico (5), New York (2), Oklahoma (1), Texas (2), and Wyoming (2). Among persons who died, ages ranged from 48 to 96 years, with a median age of 81 years. In addition, one woman pregnant at the time of illness had a miscarriage. Ten deaths not attributed to listeriosis occurred among persons who had been infected with an outbreak-associated subtype. State and local public health officials reviewed causes of death listed on death certificates to determine whether to attribute these deaths to listeriosis. Deaths included in this review occurred as recently as February 29, 2012., Seven of the illnesses were related to a pregnancy; three were diagnosed in newborns and four were diagnosed in pregnant women. One miscarriage was reported., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Please see the description of the steps in a foodborne outbreak investigation for more details., About 800 laboratory-confirmed cases of Listeria infection are reported each year in the United States and typically 3 or 4 outbreaks are identified. The foods that typically cause these outbreaks have been Mexican-style soft cheeses made with unpasteurized milk, deli meats, and hot dogs. In the past, produce was not often identified as a source, but sprouts caused an outbreak in 2009, and precut celery caused an outbreak in 2010., Collaborative investigations by local, state, and federal public health and regulatory agencies indicated that the source of the outbreak was whole cantaloupe grown at Jensen Farms’ production fields in Granada, Colorado. Among the 144 ill persons with available information on what they ate, 134 (93%) reported consuming cantaloupe in the month before illness onset. Several ill persons remembered the type of cantaloupes they had eaten and said they were Rocky Ford cantaloupes, which are grown in the Rocky Ford region of southeastern Colorado. Source tracing of the cantaloupes that ill persons ate indicated that they came from Jensen Farms, and were marketed as being from the Rocky Ford region. These cantaloupes were shipped from July 29 through September 10 to at least 24 statesExternal , with possible further distribution., The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment isolated Listeria monocytogenes from cantaloupe samples collected from grocery stores and from ill persons’ homes. Colorado state officials determined that these cantaloupes came from Jensen Farms. FDA Externalisolated Listeria monocytogenes outbreak subtypes from samples from equipment and cantaloupe from the Jensen Farms’ packing facility in Granada, Colorado. FDA worked closely with CDC, the firms involved, and public health authorities in states where illnesses occurred to determine the cause of contamination. Cantaloupes from other farms were not linked to this outbreak,  , As of 5pm EDT on September 20, 2011, a total of 55 persons infected with the 4 outbreak-associated strains of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from 14 states.  All illnesses started on or after August 4, 2011. The number of infected persons identified in each state is as follows:  California (1), Colorado (14), Illinois (1), Indiana (1), Maryland (1), Montana (1), Nebraska (4), New Mexico (10), Oklahoma (8), Texas (9), Virginia (1), West Virginia (1), Wisconsin (2), and Wyoming (1). , A total of 35 persons infected with the outbreak-associated strains of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from 10 states. All illnesses started on or after August 4, 2011. The number of infected persons identified in each state is as follows: California (1), Colorado (12), Illinois (1), Indiana (1), Montana (1), Nebraska (4), New Mexico (5), Oklahoma (6), Texas (3), and West Virginia (1)., CDC is collaborating with public health officials in several states, including Colorado, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of listeriosis. Listeriosis is a serious infection usually caused by eating food contaminated with the bacterium Listeria monocytogenes. Investigators are using DNA analysis of Listeria isolated from patients to identify cases of illness that may be part of this outbreak. The Listeria bacteria are obtained from diagnostic testing; pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) is used to determine DNA fingerprint patterns. Investigators are using data from PulseNet, the national subtyping network made up of state and local public health laboratories and federal food regulatory laboratories that performs molecular surveillance of foodborne infections. , A total of 15 persons infected with the outbreak strain of Listeria monocytogenes have been reported from 4 states. All illnesses started on or after August 15, 2011. The number of infected persons identified in each state is as follows:  Colorado (11), Nebraska (1), Oklahoma (1), and Texas (2). Listeriosis illnesses in several other states are currently being investigated by state and local health departments to determine if these illnesses are part of this outbreak., Among persons for whom information is available, illnesses began on or after August 15, 2011. Ages range from 38 to 96 years, with a median age of 84 years old. Most ill persons are over 60 years old or have health conditions that weaken the immune system. Seventy-three percent of ill persons are female. All 15 (100%) patients were hospitalized, and one death has been reported., The outbreak can be visually described with a chart showing the number of persons who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after August 26, 2011, might not be reported yet due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. Please see the description of the steps in a foodborne outbreak investigation for more details., About 800 cases of Listeria infection are diagnosed each year in the United States, along with 3 or 4 outbreaks of Listeria-associated foodborne illness. The typical foods that cause these outbreaks have been deli meats, hot dogs, and Mexican-style soft cheeses made with unpasteurized milk. Produce is not often identified as a source, but sprouts caused an outbreak in 2009, and celery caused an outbreak in 2010., Ongoing collaborative investigations by local, state, and federal public health and regulatory agencies indicate the likely source of the outbreak is a type of cantaloupe, called Rocky Ford cantaloupes, which are grown in the Rocky Ford region of southeastern Colorado. These cantaloupes were harvested in August and September, distributed widely in the United States, and are currently available in grocery stores.  Ill persons were interviewed about exposures during the month before becoming ill; investigators compared their responses to persons with listeriosis reported through the CDC Listeria Initiative, whose illnesses were not part of this outbreak. Preliminary results strongly suggest that illnesses are linked to consumption of cantaloupes.  Several ill persons who remembered the type of cantaloupe said they were Rocky Ford cantaloupes.  Product traceback information indicated these cantaloupes were marketed as cantaloupes harvested in the Rocky Ford region., Laboratory testing by the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment identified Listeria monocytogenes bacteria on cantaloupe collected from grocery stores and from an ill person’s home. Product traceback information from Colorado State officials indicated these cantaloupes were harvested in the Rocky Ford region.  FDA is working closely with CDC, the firms involved, and public health authorities in states where illnesses occurred to determine the exact source of contamination., On September 9, the Colorado Department of Public Health and EnvironmentCdc-pdfExternal advised persons in Colorado at high risk for severe listeriosis to avoid eating cantaloupes.  CDC now advises persons throughout the mainland United States and at high risk for listeriosis, including older adults, persons with weakened immune systems, and pregnant women, to not eat cantaloupes marketed as coming from the Rocky Ford region of Colorado., , , , Sign up for RSS Feed,  ', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'bdac0f771ea0c5e4f0ccc71de487264133f4c2036bb55d2845c4eee1e149125c', 'headline': 'Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)  | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 19, 3, 48, 6, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/index.html', 'main_text': 'It’s critical to keep taking precautions to prevent COVID-19., , , It’s critical to keep taking precautions to prevent COVID-19., , , , , , , , , , , Health equity is when everyone has the opportunity to be as healthy as possible., Get email updates about COVID-19, Español, 繁體中文, Tiếng Việt, 한국어, Tagalog, Русский, العربية, Kreyòl Ayisyen, Français, Polski, Português, Italiano, Deutsch, 日本語, فارسی, English', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'a15d5678632e23be77d2fac181a65a40fd08b87f077840c929419d320dc87c5d', 'headline': 'Healthcare Workers: Information on COVID-19  | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 12, 2, 17, 36, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-nCoV/hcp/index.html', 'main_text': 'Guidance for managing patients with COVID-19, including clinical guidance, home and hospital care, care for special populations, disease severity, and more, , Guidance for all US healthcare settings, for both routine care and when caring for a patient with suspected or confirmed COVID-19, , Guidance and practical approaches to operating healthcare facilities during the COVID-19 pandemic, based on current understanding and ongoing response needs, , Answers to COVID-19 questions for healthcare workers, 800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636), If you are a healthcare provider or health department with a question about the clinical management of COVID-19, please contact CDC-INFO., Call CDC 24/7 to report MIS-C, 770-488-7100, Reporting multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), About MIS-C, Español, 繁體中文, Tiếng Việt, 한국어, Tagalog, Русский, العربية, Kreyòl Ayisyen, Français, Polski, Português, Italiano, Deutsch, 日本語, فارسی, English', 'reports': []}, {'id': '7f3f7a7c9dea112919c2aafaf936e5df7643f0103462892418de9345b825e7e9', 'headline': 'Information for Laboratories about Coronavirus (COVID-19) | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 10, 6, 59, 39, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-nCoV/lab/index.html', 'main_text': 'Using Antigen Tests, Interim guidance for SARS-CoV-2 antigen testing for clinicians and laboratory professionals. Learn More, , Find up-to-date interactive forecasting data on COVID Data Tracker, To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address:, Español, 繁體中文, Tiếng Việt, 한국어, Tagalog, Русский, العربية, Kreyòl Ayisyen, Français, Polski, Português, Italiano, Deutsch, 日本語, فارسی, English', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'c4916245549d861808c084cfd1ffff6f78110d274589e39d517d5ea687662ea4', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Multidrug-resistant Campylobacter Infections Linked to Contact with Pet Store Puppies', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 8, 8, 35, 25, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/campylobacter/outbreaks/puppies-12-19/index.html', 'main_text': '[Published on December 17, 2019 at 5:00 PM ET, CDC and public health officials in several states are investigating a multistate outbreak of multidrug-resistant Campylobacter jejuni infections linked to puppies purchased from pet stores., , , Puppies and dogs can carry Campylobacter germs that can make people sick, even while appearing healthy and clean. People who own or come in contact with puppies or dogs should take steps to stay healthy around their pet., Always wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water after touching your puppy or dog, after handling their food, and after cleaning up after them., Within a few days after getting a new puppy or dog, take it to a veterinarian for a health check-up., Puppies and dogs can carry Campylobacter germs that can make people sick, even while appearing healthy and clean. People who handle puppies or dogs should take steps to stay healthy around these animals., Ask store management for training about handwashing, clean-up procedures, and other illness prevention measures., Wash your hands with soap and water after handling puppies or dogs., Eat and store your food safely., Clean up messes safely., Follow store protocols for identifying and reporting sick or injured animals., Let your employer know if you or other employees become ill, especially with diarrhea or vomiting., Practice responsible use of antibiotics in pet stores., , CDC and public health officials in several states are investigating a multistate outbreak of multidrug-resistant human Campylobacter jejuni infections linked to contact with puppies from pet stores., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Campylobacter bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria from people infected with Campylobacter were related genetically to each other. This means that people in the outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection. WGS also showed that bacteria from people infected with Campylobacter in the current outbreak are related genetically to a 2016–2018 outbreak of multidrug-resistant Campylobacter infections linked to pet store puppies., As of December 17, 2019, a total of 30 people infected with Campylobacter have been reported from 13 states. A list of the states and the number of confirmed cases in each state can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 6, 2019, through November 10, 2019. Ill people range in age from 8 months to 70 years, with a median age of 34; 52% of ill people are female. Of 26 people with information available, 4 hospitalizations have been reported. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., WGS analysis of 26 isolates from ill people predicted antibiotic resistance to tetracycline (26 isolates), ciprofloxacin (25), nalidixic acid (25), azithromycin (23), erythromycin (23), clindamycin (23), telithromycin (23), and gentamicin (18). Testing of one outbreak isolate using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory confirmed these results., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicate that puppies purchased from pet stores are the likely source of this outbreak. Many of the cases had contact with puppies or were employees at pet stores, including Petland., CDC included ill people in this outbreak if, In interviews, ill people answered questions about dog, puppy, and other exposures they had in the week before they became ill. Of 24 people interviewed, 21 (88%) reported contact with a puppy in the week before illness started, and 15 (71%) of those 21 people reported contact with a puppy from a pet store. When asked about the specific pet store, 12 (80%) of those 15 people reported either having contact with a puppy or working at a Petland store., Investigators reported eight more ill people who had contact with a puppy at Petland and had a diagnostic test showing they were infected with Campylobacter bacteria. However, CDC did not include these people in the outbreak case count because no bacterial samples were available for WGS. Public health investigators use WGS to identify illnesses that are part of multistate outbreaks., A single, common supplier of puppies has not been identified. This investigation is ongoing. CDC will provide updates if more information becomes available., Previous Updates &gt;&gt;', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'c4916245549d861808c084cfd1ffff6f78110d274589e39d517d5ea687662ea4', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Multidrug-resistant Campylobacter Infections Linked to Contact with Pet Store Puppies', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 8, 8, 35, 25, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/campylobacter/outbreaks/puppies-12-19/index.html', 'main_text': '[Published on December 17, 2019 at 5:00 PM ET, CDC and public health officials in several states are investigating a multistate outbreak of multidrug-resistant Campylobacter jejuni infections linked to puppies purchased from pet stores., , , Puppies and dogs can carry Campylobacter germs that can make people sick, even while appearing healthy and clean. People who own or come in contact with puppies or dogs should take steps to stay healthy around their pet., Always wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water after touching your puppy or dog, after handling their food, and after cleaning up after them., Within a few days after getting a new puppy or dog, take it to a veterinarian for a health check-up., Puppies and dogs can carry Campylobacter germs that can make people sick, even while appearing healthy and clean. People who handle puppies or dogs should take steps to stay healthy around these animals., Ask store management for training about handwashing, clean-up procedures, and other illness prevention measures., Wash your hands with soap and water after handling puppies or dogs., Eat and store your food safely., Clean up messes safely., Follow store protocols for identifying and reporting sick or injured animals., Let your employer know if you or other employees become ill, especially with diarrhea or vomiting., Practice responsible use of antibiotics in pet stores., , CDC and public health officials in several states are investigating a multistate outbreak of multidrug-resistant human Campylobacter jejuni infections linked to contact with puppies from pet stores., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on Campylobacter bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria from people infected with Campylobacter were related genetically to each other. This means that people in the outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection. WGS also showed that bacteria from people infected with Campylobacter in the current outbreak are related genetically to a 2016–2018 outbreak of multidrug-resistant Campylobacter infections linked to pet store puppies., As of December 17, 2019, a total of 30 people infected with Campylobacter have been reported from 13 states. A list of the states and the number of confirmed cases in each state can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 6, 2019, through November 10, 2019. Ill people range in age from 8 months to 70 years, with a median age of 34; 52% of ill people are female. Of 26 people with information available, 4 hospitalizations have been reported. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported., WGS analysis of 26 isolates from ill people predicted antibiotic resistance to tetracycline (26 isolates), ciprofloxacin (25), nalidixic acid (25), azithromycin (23), erythromycin (23), clindamycin (23), telithromycin (23), and gentamicin (18). Testing of one outbreak isolate using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing methods by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory confirmed these results., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicate that puppies purchased from pet stores are the likely source of this outbreak. Many of the cases had contact with puppies or were employees at pet stores, including Petland., CDC included ill people in this outbreak if, In interviews, ill people answered questions about dog, puppy, and other exposures they had in the week before they became ill. Of 24 people interviewed, 21 (88%) reported contact with a puppy in the week before illness started, and 15 (71%) of those 21 people reported contact with a puppy from a pet store. When asked about the specific pet store, 12 (80%) of those 15 people reported either having contact with a puppy or working at a Petland store., Investigators reported eight more ill people who had contact with a puppy at Petland and had a diagnostic test showing they were infected with Campylobacter bacteria. However, CDC did not include these people in the outbreak case count because no bacterial samples were available for WGS. Public health investigators use WGS to identify illnesses that are part of multistate outbreaks., A single, common supplier of puppies has not been identified. This investigation is ongoing. CDC will provide updates if more information becomes available., Previous Updates &gt;&gt;', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'd250697adbab13229d4becc541728de4641cc3efceb32ab7ee951140c9c95cf2', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Lung Injury Associated with the Use of E-Cigarette, or Vaping, Products | Electronic Cigarettes | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 11, 27, 5, 1, 57, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/e-cigarettes/severe-lung-disease.html', 'main_text': 'CDC, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), state and local health departments, and other clinical and public health partners are investigating a national outbreak of e-cigarette, or vaping, product use-associated lung injury (EVALI)., calendar alt icon Updated February 25, 2020, at 1:00 PM EST, CDC will continue to update guidance related to EVALI as appropriate., About the Outbreak:, If you have questions about CDC’s investigation into the lung injuries associated with use of e-cigarette, or vaping, products, contact CDC-INFO or call 1-800-232-4636., , For more information and resources for key stakeholders, visit For Healthcare Providers and For State and Local Health Departments. General resources are also available., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'cb6e001189a7184ac2c3a9a2c59374b19645c64f3a18ee7ea1806f7d14089819', 'headline': 'Office on Smoking and Health (OSH) | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 11, 16, 5, 2, 58, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/index.htm', 'main_text': 'OSH AT A GLANCE, , Tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States. Based on 2019 data, about 34 million US adults smoke cigarettes. Every day, about 1,600 young people under age 18 years smoke their first cigarette, and 235 begin smoking cigarettes daily. Over 16 million people live with at least one disease caused by smoking, and 58 million nonsmoking Americans are exposed to secondhand smoke., The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is at the forefront of the nation’s efforts to reduce deaths and prevent chronic diseases that result from tobacco use. The agency and its partners promote tobacco control interventions, including actions to prevent youth from starting to use tobacco, smoke-free environments, programs to help tobacco users quit, and steps to eliminate tobacco-related health disparities in different population groups., OSH At-A-Glance, OSH Partners with States, National Tobacco Control Program Funding, National Tobacco Control Programs in Action, Personal Success Stories, State Fact Sheets, Funding Opportunity Announcements, Interagency Committee on Smoking and Health, Newsroom, Stay Connected, Organization, To develop, conduct, and support strategic efforts to protect the public’s health from the harmful effects of tobacco use., A world free from tobacco-related death and disease., To accomplish our goals, we work in partnership with local, state, national, and international leaders to—, CDC works with decision makers, partners, health officials, and the public to end the tobacco epidemic by:,  , * CDC’s global tobacco work is supported by the CDC Foundation through donations from the Bloomberg Initiative to Reduce Tobacco Use and The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '57a1bd9a5324f2eccd4fdf39e57e4154ce37a9ea6d09388bb3fbf52db95d3c20', 'headline': 'OSH Partners with States | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 3, 9, 3, 36, 8, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/serves-states/index.htm', 'main_text': "CDC's Office on Smoking and Health Partners with States to Protect Kids and Help Smokers Quit, \ufeff, CDC’s OFFICE ON SMOKING AND HEALTH (OSH) is the lead federal agency for comprehensive tobacco prevention and control. OSH saves lives and saves money by preventing and reducing tobacco use – the leading cause of preventable disease and death in the U.S., Even if you haven’t heard of OSH, you’ve probably seen or felt the impact of our work:, , , through CDC’s Tips From Former Smokers® ad campaign that has inspired 1 million Americans to quit smoking from 2012 to 2018., , , through 1-800-QUIT-NOW, which links callers to their state quitline and receives critical support from OSH., , , which covers OSH experts’ reports and studies about tobacco use and secondhand smoke exposure., , , if you or someone you know has quit smoking because of OSH’s work to support and encouragetobacco cessation., , , if you enjoy smokefree indoor air protections in public places that have been expanded because of our scientific research., , , CDC’s National Tobacco Control Program (NTCP) is the only nationwide investment that supports all 50 states, the District of Columbia, 8 U.S. territories, and 27 tribal organizations for comprehensive tobacco control efforts and quitlines., , States use OSH funds to prevent kids from using tobacco, reduce secondhand smoke exposure, help smokers quit, and reduce disparities in tobacco use. For every $1 spent on strong tobacco control programs, states achieve a $55 return on investment, mostly in averted health care costs to treat smoking related illness., , , CDC’s Tips From Former Smokers® campaign is the only national media campaign focused on inspiring the 7 in 10 American adults who smoke and want to quit. Tips ® features real people—not actors—suffering from the health consequences of smoking and secondhand smoke exposure. It connects people who smoke with resources, including a free quitline, 1-800-QUIT-NOW, to help them quit. CDC supports state and territorial quitlines to respond to the immediate and sustained spikes in call volumes they receive when the Tips campaign is on air., , Tips saves states money. CDC’s ad development, placement, and evaluation allows states to invest in ad placement during times and in areas not reached by CDC’s Tips campaign. CDC’s supplemental quitline support helps states meet the demands for cessation support generated by the campaign., , , CDC funds data collection, evaluation, research and laboratory activities to monitor tobacco use and its health effects among U.S. youth and adults. OSH supports the state-based Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, and with FDA, supports the school-based National Youth Tobacco Survey, the nation’s premier survey of youth tobacco use., , National level surveillance systems provide consistent, reliable, and cost-effective data collection. CDC data are used by states and others to evaluate their work and monitor progress., How does OSH’s coordination at the Federal level serve states?OSH provides the critical linkages, expertise, resources, and technical assistance states need to maximize impact and minimize duplication., Documenting the problem. OSH produces Surgeon General’s Reports (SGRs) that form the basis of our understanding of the health effects of tobacco use, secondhand smoke exposure, and evidence-\xadbased tobacco control strategies. And OSH’s epidemiologists regularly publish high-\xadquality reports on tobacco use trends that states use to monitor progress, prioritize interventions, and reduce disparities. For SGRs, visit: cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/sgr/index.htm., Identifying best practices.  OSH experts identify what works in tobacco control so that states don’t have to reinvent the wheel to tackle the problem. OSH regularly updates its guide, Best Practices for Tobacco Control Programs, which outlines how states can develop, implement, and budget for an evidencebased tobacco control program. For more, visit: cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/best_practices/index.htm., Providing technical assistance and linkages for states and health systems. OSH provides one-on-one technical assistance for state tobacco control programs, partners with states and health systems working to improve insurance coverage of cessation treatments, and creates opportunities for states to regularly hear from one another and share best practices. For more, visit: cdc.gov/sixeighteen/tobacco/index.htm., Sharing media resources. Through the Media Campaign Resource Center (MCRC), OSH provides access to existing tobacco education advertisements, allowing state, local, tribal, and territorial health departments and other organizations to save the time and high cost of producing new ads. Among the ads offered are those from CDC’s national tobacco education campaign, Tips From Former Smokers®—a valuable asset given its research-based development process and proven effectiveness. Visit the MCRC at cdc.gov/tobacco/mcrc., Educating the public about tobacco use and young people. For example, OSH implemented a “Protecting Young People from E-cigarettes” communication initiative to raise awareness among parents, educators, and health care providers about the risks of e-cigarette use among young people. Communication materials included print and radio PSAs; social media and digital display ads; fact sheets; presentation for delivery to youth audiences; partner toolkit; and web pages for syndication. These resources make science accessible to the public and reduce the need for states to develop their own materials. For more, visit cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/e-cigarettes., Tracking and visualizing data. Through OSHData, OSH presents comprehensive tobacco prevention and control data online in an easy to use, interactive application available to states, researchers, media, and the public. Visit OSHData at cdc.gov/oshdata., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:", 'reports': []}, {'id': '69a26dd899d3b9fb128acd049cb45ec091523c6813c0c678e2ae6ca7c39e624a', 'headline': 'National Tobacco Control Program Funding | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 11, 5, 1, 48, 14, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/program-funding/index.htm', 'main_text': 'CDC is the only federal agency that provides funding to help support all 50 states, the District of Columbia, 8 U.S. territories, and 26 tribes/tribal organizations for tobacco control efforts., , *Did not apply for Quitline funding, To view and download state tobacco control program fact sheets, see State Fact Sheets., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '0713c7797b6941ccaca42baab11fa87c4163934481cefba19ba0603f4e23eeee', 'headline': 'National Tobacco Control Programs in Action | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 10, 28, 2, 15, 28, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/programs-in-action/index.htm', 'main_text': 'CDC’s Office on Smoking and Health (OSH) is the only nationwide investment that supports all 50 states, the District of Columbia, 8 U.S. territories, and 12 tribal organizations to protect kids and help smokers quit. This page highlights some ways states are preventing and reducing tobacco use, while leveraging OSH’s expertise, resources, or technical assistance to maximize their impact., , Each year, about 41,000 Americans die from secondhand smoke exposure. The home is the primary source of secondhand smoke exposure for children. Secondhand smoke exposure causes ear infections, respiratory infections, more frequent and severe asthma, and sudden infant death syndrome among children. Alabama’s tobacco prevention and control staff, who are supported with CDC funding, are doing their part to protect Alabama residents in public housing from the risks of secondhand smoke exposure in their homes., , Tobacco use has declined in Indiana in recent years, and 22 cities and counties have protected their residents from secondhand smoke by adopting comprehensive smoke-free policies. However, a majority of Indiana residents still are not covered by comprehensive smoke-free policies, encountering secondhand smoke in public places and their workplaces. Indiana’s tobacco control program—supported by CDC funding—has put in place a number of strategies to educate citizens and decision makers about the problem, reduce secondhand smoke exposure, and support people who want to quit using tobacco., , Each year, tobacco use and secondhand smoke exposure kills more than 8,800 Kentuckians and costs more than $1.2 billion in Medicaid and Medicare treatment costs. Kentucky’s tobacco control program, which is supported with CDC funding, built strategic partnerships to help ensure that all Kentuckians have access to counseling and FDA-approved medications to help them quit using tobacco products., , In Nebraska, 2,500 adults die from smoking-related illnesses each year, and nearly 18,000 children are exposed to secondhand smoke at home. People living in multiunit housing are particularly susceptible to unwanted secondhand smoke exposure, which can transfer between apartments. Nebraska’s tobacco prevention and control staff are supported with CDC funding. They prepared toolkits and trained housing managers, and used CDC’s scientific data, educational resources, and media tools to reach public housing managers and residents., , Despite significant reductions in tobacco use over the last 15 years, 28,200 New York state residents die from tobacco-related illnesses each year. New York’s tobacco control program understands the importance of using data to motivate community partners and guide decision-making. The program—supported with CDC funding—shared national, state, and local data with communities and educated them about strategies known to reduce tobacco use., , Cigarette smoking causes about 480,000 deaths every year. West Virginia has the highest percentage of adult cigarette smokers in the United States. In 2016, the West Virginia Division of Tobacco Prevention, with funding and technical support from CDC, created a pilot program for pharmacists in rural counties to counsel people. This partnership helped people quit smoking., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'd400e67b602b6d714975dc55c51c7e08dcd59b7ad62911c8dbdc9066381d2a96', 'headline': 'Alabama | Programs in Action by State | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 6, 2, 1, 31, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/programs-in-action/alabama/index.htm', 'main_text': "More than 1 in 3 non-smokers who live in rental housing in the United States are exposed to secondhand smoke, which can travel from one unit to the next in the same building. Secondhand smoke is not safe at any level, and people who live in multiunit housing like apartments are more likely to be exposed to secondhand smoke than people living in single-family homes. Public housing, which is subsidized by the government, serves groups of people that are more vulnerable to the harms of secondhand smoke exposure, including children, older adults, and people with disabilities.1, Each year in the United States, an estimated 41,000 adults die from secondhand smoke exposure.2 Secondhand smoke exposure causes heart disease and stroke among nonsmoking adults. Among children, it causes ear infections, respiratory infections, more frequent and severe asthma, and sudden infant death syndrome.3 Because secondhand smoke is harmful, two employees at the Alabama Department of Public Health’s Tobacco Prevention and Control Branch—Knoxye Williams and Monica Moore—made this issue their priority., In 2016, Knoxye and Monica reached out to public housing authorities in the state that provide public housing to low-income residents to:, This outreach helped the tobacco prevention and control staff build important relationships with the state’s housing authorities., In December 2016, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) announced a new federal rule requiring public housing to be smoke-free by July 31, 2018, to help protect residents from secondhand smoke. Knoxye and Monica knew this change would be a lot of work, but it would also be an opportunity to help housing authorities throughout Alabama adopt smoke-free policies. Only 11 of the state’s 149 housing authorities had put smoke-free policies in place in the past., To help housing authorities meet the new federal rule’s requirements, Tobacco Prevention and Control Branch staff:, Within 5 months of these efforts, eight more housing authorities—home to 8,628 residents—had adopted smoke-free policies. This change, which happened well before the July 31, 2018, deadline, brought the total number of public housing residents in Alabama who are protected by smoke-free policies to over 13,500., The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention provided key funding for Alabama’s Tobacco Prevention and Control Branch, which Knoxye says is now accepted as an authority on how to adopt smoke-free policies. This funding helped housing authorities educate residents about health issues and get access to resources on how to quit smoking. Most importantly, the homes of people living in public housing in Alabama—including children, older adults, and people with disabilities—are now safer., From Alabama: Tyler's Story, To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:", 'reports': []}, {'id': 'f728e1f91beac43f358aa91b7c1531eb07faacc53fd429eea88a98199ab6ab5a', 'headline': 'Indiana | Programs in Action by State | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 10, 28, 2, 43, 4, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/programs-in-action/indiana/index.htm', 'main_text': "The Indiana State Department of Health’s tobacco control program has worked hard to reduce tobacco product use and secondhand smoke exposure among Indiana citizens. Like the tulip tree—the official state tree of Indiana—the tobacco control program has deep roots. The program’s team of 10 staff members has more than 80 combined years of tobacco control experience and are committed to using science and following best practices to improve the health of Indiana residents, also known as “Hoosiers.” This work has led to fewer Hoosiers using tobacco products and resulted in local, comprehensive smoke-free policies covering nearly 1 in 3 Indiana residents. Despite the best efforts of the tobacco control program, a majority of Hoosiers live in communities without comprehensive smoke-free policies and still are exposed to secondhand smoke in public places and their workplaces.1 Also, 1 in 4 Indiana middle and high school students still are exposed to secondhand smoke at home.2, Secondhand smoke causes more than 1,300 deaths in Indiana each year. It also costs the state $2.1 billion in medical expenses and premature death each year.3 The tobacco control program staff discovered a major barrier to reducing secondhand smoke exposure in Indiana: many Hoosiers believed smoking was routine or acceptable. They did not fully understand the harms of tobacco use and they did not know that no level of exposure to secondhand smoke is safe., The tobacco control program and its partners looked at ways to change how Hoosiers think about tobacco products and at how to educate them about the health and financial benefits of reducing tobacco use in Indiana., Together, the partners recognized that a number of different approaches could help change residents’ attitudes and behavior, and protect people from dangerous secondhand smoke in Indiana. These included:, The tobacco control program prepared fact sheets about each county to help people better understand how secondhand smoke affects their communities. The fact sheets provide scientific evidence and county-specific data, including: the percentage of adults in the county who smoke; the number of deaths in the county caused by tobacco use and secondhand smoke exposure; total cost to the county due to the effects of secondhand smoke; and any smoke-free laws or voluntary smoke-free policies that are in place in the county.4, So far, 22 cities and counties in Indiana have adopted comprehensive smoke-free policies, meaning 31% of all Hoosiers are now protected from secondhand smoke.5 The program and its partners also helped these communities with their communication strategies, which made it easier for communities to implement their policies., Partnering with Counter Toolsexternal icon, the tobacco control program trained community organizations and organizations who serve minority groups to study tobacco product availability and advertising inside stores where tobacco products are sold. The tobacco industry spends nearly $297 million per year marketing its products in Indiana, and spends most of that money on in-store marketing.1 This marketing makes it more likely that children and teens will start using tobacco products. The industry also targets communities that have higher proportions of tobacco use.6, People are not exposed to as much secondhand smoke when more people quit smoking. Indiana already has a tobacco Quitlineexternal icon, but the tobacco control program added new resources to support people with mental health or substance use disorders in trying to quit. The program also wanted to help employers support employees who want to quit through worksite wellness programs. It developed resources for local partners to educate nearly 1,500 Indiana employers who enrolled in a program to learn more. The business owners learned about the health benefits of referring employees to the Quitline, paying for other services to help employees quit using tobacco products, and adopting smoke-free policies to support employees who are trying to quit., CDC’s funding of Indiana’s tobacco control program staff and its educational and cessation activities has been an important part of Indiana’s success in putting CDC-recommended tobacco control strategies into practice. Hoosiers now better understand the issues related to tobacco use and secondhand smoke exposure. This has changed their attitudes about the acceptability of tobacco use, prompted their communities to protect their citizens from secondhand smoke, and reduced the harms caused by tobacco use., From Indiana: Anne's Story, To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:", 'reports': []}, {'id': 'b081fba603cd9988f80db48a30fbf94137e26ba1519606facb901baa46ec8d44', 'headline': 'Kentucky | Programs in Action by State | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 10, 30, 6, 57, 5, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/programs-in-action/kentucky/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Bobbye Gray from the Kentucky Tobacco Prevention and Cessation Program is a registered nurse and a trained expert in helping people quit using tobacco products. Each year, more than 8,900 people in Kentucky die of smoking-related illnesses.1 In addition, tobacco-related diseases among Kentuckians result in Medicaid and Medicare treatment costs of about $1.2 billion per year—or $300 for each of the 4 million people living in Kentucky.2, Bobbye and her tobacco control colleagues wanted to find new ways to reduce tobacco use among Kentucky’s Medicaid enrollees, many of whom have a low income, are disabled, or live in rural areas of the state.3,4, Kentucky’s five health care systems—or Managed Care Organizations (MCOs)—that serve people insured through Medicaid offered different levels of insurance coverage for help to quit using tobacco products. Many rural Kentuckians were unable to get the help they needed to quit because their insurance did not fully pay for every service. In 2015, the tobacco control program met with the Kentucky Department for Medicaid Services, the Medicaid Prevention Network’s Tobacco Cessation Affinity Group, and the MCOs to learn why MCOs were unable to consistently pay for patients to receive medications approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to help people quit using tobacco products. After a series of discussions, these MCOs agreed to cover all seven FDA-approved medications., To increase quit rates, the tobacco control program approached the Kentucky Pharmacy Board in 2016 to discuss options to get help from pharmacists. Because Kentucky law did not allow pharmacists to prescribe medication to help people quit, the tobacco control program and the Kentucky Pharmacy Board helped pharmacists and doctors enter into collaborative care agreements so that pharmacists could recommend medication and provide brief counseling to help people quit.5, Working with the MCOs and the Kentucky Pharmacy Board were steps in the right direction. But people who go to their doctors for help to quit using tobacco products could be even more successful if they receive counseling in addition to using medication.6 Many doctors in Kentucky were unaware that tobacco-related counseling is billable under Medicaid and Medicare. To address that issue, the tobacco control program and its partners created charts outlining the coverage provided by MCOs to help people quit and the billing codes for tobacco-related counseling, which they gave to Kentucky’s Medicaid providers. Knowing which billing codes to use to get paid for counseling patients to quit may increase the likelihood doctors will offer the service, given the many demands on their time., In 2017, the Kentucky legislature decided to formalize and expand the MCOs’ agreement related to insurance coverage for quitting tobacco. Now, for consistency, all MCOs, Medicaid, and commercial health plans in Kentucky are required to provide the tobacco insurance benefits recommended by the US Preventive Services Task Force—all seven FDA-approved medications and individual, group, and telephone counseling. In addition, the Kentucky Pharmacy Board changed its rules in late 2017.7,8 Now, pharmacists can provide medications without a prescription and do more extensive cessation counseling to help people quit, without the extra work of entering into collaborative care agreements with doctors., These changes resulted from steps that the tobacco control program took with partners to help Kentuckians get treatment to quit using tobacco. This work was done with key funding from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to Kentucky’s tobacco control program. Kentucky’s efforts are helping to reduce the toll of tobacco and health care expenses in the Bluegrass state., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'aeb83b3156a159d7d31779102b13bf3994b66e56e81376c9a228d29142998280', 'headline': 'Nebraska | Programs in Action by State | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 6, 5, 59, 23, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/programs-in-action/nebraska/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Like the rich plains and prairies throughout the state, many good things come from the hard work of the Tobacco Free Nebraska team from the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services’ Division of Public Health. The state prohibited smoking in indoor workplaces and public places in 2009, yet 2,500 Nebraskan adults still die from smoking-related illnesses each year.1 Troubled by this and the knowledge that nearly 18,000 Nebraskan children are exposed to secondhand smoke at home,2 the Tobacco Free Nebraska team thought of ways to protect more people from secondhand smoke., People living in multiunit housing, such as apartments, are particularly susceptible to unwanted secondhand smoke exposure in the home. Secondhand smoke can travel between units in apartment buildings through doorways and in other ways, such as through electrical lines, ventilation systems, and plumbing. Secondhand smoke is not safe at any level.3, Many residents in public housing are children, older adults, and people with disabilities.4 Nebraska’s Public Housing Authorities, which provide government-subsidized housing, were early leaders in the United States for adopting smoke-free housing policies. However, the pace of adopting new smoke-free housing policies in Nebraska’s Public Housing Authorities had slowed. In response, Tobacco Free Nebraska created a program to make implementation easier for the housing authorities. The team also developed a toolkit that included:, Tobacco Free Nebraska gave these toolkits to any housing manager that filled out a needs assessment in September 2016. The needs assessments helped Tobacco Free Nebraska identify what other help housing managers need., In December 2016, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) announced a new federal rule requiring public housing to be smoke-free by July 31, 2018. In August 2017, Tobacco Free Nebraska mailed new toolkits to each housing authority within the state to help achieve this requirement. In addition, Tobacco Free Nebraska brought in experts to train housing managers in September 2017. Because of this timely and useful support, housing managers continue to look to Tobacco Free Nebraska for training and tools to help adopt and implement smoke-free policies., Tobacco Free Nebraska continues to find new ways to help housing authorities adopt HUD’s smoke-free rule, such as:, The implementation of Tobacco Free Nebraska’s toolkits has already made an impact. In 2017, 10 housing authorities in Nebraska adopted, and 5 housing authorities began planning to adopt, new policies that meet the HUD requirements. That same year, 10 Public Housing Authorities in Nebraska took steps to update their existing smoke-free policies to better protect residents. In addition to protecting people from secondhand smoke, these smoke-free housing policies could help motivate others to quit. This work was done with funding from CDC. In addition, CDC’s scientific data, Tips® Campaign, and other CDC Media Campaign Resource Center tools were key to Tobacco Free Nebraska’s success., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'fc5b9639deb3f99bd053b4ba53aab3d1c0f9ed3b6d1ed1e502ce708326733ffe', 'headline': 'New York | Programs in Action | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 6, 5, 47, 54, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/programs-in-action/new-york/index.htm', 'main_text': 'New York State’s Tobacco Control Program, run by the State’s Bureau of Tobacco Control, is known for its effective and evidence-based work with local communities across the state. The Tobacco Control Program and these communities collaborate to prevent illness, disability, and death caused by tobacco. Together, they have greatly reduced the percentage of New York adults who smoke and have brought the percentage of New York youth who smoke to record lows.1,2, The New York Tobacco Control Program and its local partners understand the importance of using data to motivate community partners and guide decision-making. The program has sophisticated data collection and analysis capabilities., Tobacco Control Program staff:, Higher tobacco retail density is associated with greater tobacco use among adolescents and decreased quit attempts for adult cigarette smokers who want to quit. It also contributes to racial and socioeconomic disparities in tobacco use. Reducing the number of retailers that sell tobacco products in an area may prevent youth initiation and increase quit attempts.3 In addition, a large number of pharmacies sell tobacco products, and often more cheaply than other stores.4 Increasing the price of tobacco products is the single most effective way to reduce tobacco use.5, Relying on local, state, and national data provided by the Tobacco Control Program, community leaders in local areas across New York State have taken steps to reduce the toll of tobacco on young people and underserved populations., For example, in 2016 and 2017:, Ed Day, the Rockland County Executive, relied upon national and local data to better understand issues related to the sale of tobacco products in pharmacies. Mr. Day said the following:, There exists conclusive evidence that tobacco smoke causes cancer, cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, and negative birth outcomes among other serious and chronic diseases . . . . [E]ach year over 13,000 New Yorkers are diagnosed with lung cancer with about 9,000 people dying of this disease. Smoking is the most common cause of lung cancer and [secondhand smoke] also increases the risk for lung cancer. . . . Access to tobacco products remains a major problem. Our pharmacies should be sites of health and treatment modalities, not places where these addictive tobacco products are readily available and sold., CDC’s scientific information, data resources, and funding for state tobacco control and evaluation staff have been a key piece of New York’s tobacco control success. These tools have helped New Yorkers understand the issues and educate their communities, resulting in measures to prevent the harms caused by tobacco use., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '899a8973a436885046c150e28990671ea352e6948fc1847a1d2cd8af3ef23524', 'headline': 'West Virginia | Programs in Action by State | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 6, 2, 53, 5, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/programs-in-action/west-virginia/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Cigarette smoking is the leading cause of preventable disease and death in the United States, accounting for about 480,000 deaths every year.1 Nationally, an estimated 14% of adults currently smoke cigarettes and more than 16 million Americans live with a smoking-related disease.2, In 2016, the West Virginia Division of Tobacco Prevention, part of the state’s Department of Health &amp; Human Services, was looking for new ways to lower the number of West Virginia adults who smoke tobacco. Nearly 25% of West Virginia adults were cigarette smokers—the highest percentage of any state in the country.3 The Tobacco Prevention program staff knew that pharmacists can play a key role in promoting health by counseling people on how to quit using tobacco products and by providing nicotine replacement therapies like patches or gum. Counseling and nicotine replacement therapies are proven, effective ways to help smokers quit.4 The Tobacco Prevention program staff decided to work more closely with small pharmacies in rural counties to reduce tobacco use among West Virginians., Creative Pharmacist (now known as STRAND Clinical Technologies) works with pharmacists in over 1,000 independent pharmacies to help patients manage their chronic health conditions.5 Creative Pharmacist shows CDC’s Tips From Former Smokers® ads on TVs in these pharmacies—reaching over 2 million customers in 2 years—to motivate smokers to consider quitting and ask a pharmacist for advice.6, The Tobacco Prevention program and Creative Pharmacist created a pilot program to help people quit smoking. The program focused on small pharmacies in 5 rural counties with high smoking rates. As part of the program, pharmacists:, The pilot program created by this public-private partnership between the Tobacco Prevention program and pharmacies has helped West Virginians quit smoking. Fifty adults who smoked cigarettes enrolled in the program. Within 10 weeks of launching the program, 40% of the enrolled clients had quit smoking, and one-third of the 40% remained quit at 24 weeks. The program was expanded, with an additional 8 rural pharmacies enrolling 110 clients, 30 of whom had quit cigarette smoking within 12 weeks. The program continues to be evaluated and enhanced.6, The partnership between Tobacco Prevention staff, Creative Pharmacist, and pharmacists in rural counties helped place Tips from Former Smokers® television ads and other materials related to quitting in rural pharmacies. When people who smoke see the messages, they can turn to their local pharmacists for advice on how to quit smoking. As a result of this program, pharmacists have built stronger relationships with West Virginians who smoke and are seen as trusted counselors who are willing and able to help people quit smoking. Tobacco Prevention staff, who are supported with CDC funding and received technical assistance from CDC for this project, are finding new ways to reduce tobacco use in West Virginia., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'b619f46b9a1889bac4f113788caa301367c2fec60c43ce3183361083e9cffda4', 'headline': 'Personal Success Stories | Programs in Action | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 10, 28, 2, 51, 23, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/programs-in-action/personal-success-stories/index.htm', 'main_text': ', Tyler, a photographer from rural Alabama, smoked her first cigarette at age 9. By the time she was 16, Tyler smoked every day and eventually began smoking a pack each day. Tyler and her husband wanted to have a baby, so Tyler decided to call 1-800-QUIT-NOW for help to quit smoking. Tyler says without hesitation, “Calling that number changed my life.”, , Anne, a single mom from Indiana, tried to quit smoking many times. Seeing a CDC Tips from Former Smokers® ad gave her hope and a glimpse of what a cigarette-free life can be like. Anne quit with the support of her family, and was more determined to never smoke again. Anne says she’s living better than she ever imagined., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '74eec81bfc01790e42401aff5282c2fbe03121fbd1b1fc584a6f490b340a1e3b', 'headline': "From Alabama: Tyler's Story | Personal Success Stories | CDC", 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 6, 5, 51, 37, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/programs-in-action/personal-success-stories/tylers-story/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Tyler, a photographer from rural Alabama, smoked her first cigarette at age 9. When she was 13, she began to bum cigarettes from friends. She thought smoking was cool, although it made her feel sick. By the time she was 16, Tyler smoked every day. Her dad also smoked, but didn’t share his cigarettes with her. Tyler was able to get cigarettes from her friends’ parents instead. When she was 17, her older boyfriend—who used smokeless tobacco—began buying cigarettes for her., Tyler and her boyfriend were married in 2013. The young couple promised each other that they would quit if they smoked a whole pack of cigarettes or used a whole can of smokeless tobacco in a single day. They knew they couldn’t afford their addiction. But when Tyler began smoking a pack each day in early 2016, she still didn’t quit., Tyler wanted to get pregnant, but knew her chances of having a baby might be affected by a medical condition she has called polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)external icon. She figured her chances of getting pregnant could only get better if she quit smoking. Tyler’s grandmother, who had successfully quit smoking after 60 years, encouraged her to call 1-800-QUIT-NOW. Tyler called the hotline and talked to a trained smoking cessation counselor for free. She also received free nicotine patches in the mail, which helped her to quit smoking in June 2016. She has not smoked a cigarette since.On March 9, 2017, Tyler and her husband received some life-changing news. Tyler was pregnant. Their daughter was born in October 2017, and they were able to bring her into a smoke-free home. Tyler, who now takes photos of her daughter each day, says without hesitation, “Calling that number changed my life.”, Tyler says she could not afford to buy nicotine patches or pay for a counselor to help her quit. But she was able to receive these resources for free through a partnership between CDC, the National Cancer Institute, and the State of Alabama. Because she was so focused on improving her chances of getting pregnant, Tyler says she was able to find ways to keep busy when she otherwise would have reached for a cigarette. She does not miss the smell, taste, or hassle of carrying cigarettes with her, and she says that she has saved a lot of money. Most of all, Tyler is excited to show her daughter how to live a healthy life, a way of demonstrating her favorite quote: “Every day is a gift. That’s why it’s called the present.”,  , Smoking during early pregnancy can cause cleft lip and/or cleft palate in babies, Women smokers in certain age groups are more than 38 times as likely—to—develop COPD, compared with women who have never smoked, Quit smoking to lower your risk of cervical cancer. #CervicalHealthMonth pic.twitter.com/PGWHqEKYwlexternal icon, — CDC Tobacco Free (@CDCTobaccoFree) January 24, 2018, , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '74b6a3b64028fd62c98c05e1a0a9e1f8e780e6ae9818831d124f2c857a1e4d3d', 'headline': "From Indiana: Anne's Story | Personal Success Stories | CDC", 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 10, 28, 9, 11, 23, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/programs-in-action/personal-success-stories/anne-story/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Anne tried to quit smoking many times. As a single mom from Indiana, the stress of raising her children while working full-time and going to college made it hard to give up cigarettes for good. It also was also hard for Anne to quit smoking because she knew many people who smoked, including her father and her sister. Being around others who smoke can lead someone who is trying to quit to want to smoke. It also was easier for Anne to rationalize smoking when she saw others doing it., When her daughter turned 13—the same age Anne was when she started smoking—Anne realized that she did not want her daughter to go down the same path., Concern for her daughter was Anne’s main reason to quit, but she found some hope in an unexpected place. While watching TV one night, Anne and her family saw CDC’s Tips From Former Smokers® ad featuring Rebecca. Rebecca is someone who struggled with depression in addition to health problems from smoking. People in the U.S. who have mental health conditions—like depression, anxiety, or other conditions—are more likely to smoke than people who don’t have these conditions. After seeking help for her depression, Rebecca was able to quit smoking and started running., Anne found Rebecca’s story “refreshing” and says that it gave her hope and “a glimpse of what life can be like after cigarettes.”, Anne’s boss, a former smoker herself, encouraged her to set a quit date. Soon after that date, Anne hadn’t smoked, but she also wasn’t sure she’d be able to quit for good. Anne got support in her quit journey from her mother’s husband, also a former smoker. Within a couple of weeks, she felt better and was more determined than ever to never smoke again., Anne says she’d tried to quit many times before, but Rebecca’s story was the “nudge in the right direction” she needed to make it last. This time, the same determination that helped her raise a family while working and going to school kept her from getting discouraged. Having the support of her family and seeing Tips ads on TV reinforced Anne’s decision to quit., Now, Anne says she’s living better than she ever imagined. She no longer has to take time out of other activities to smoke. Anne also says she’s much happier and, best of all, feels she’s a better mom. “Sometimes the best way to help your children is to help yourself,” she says. With more time for her kids and activities, she’s proving that true every single day., Equality in Smoking &amp; Disease: Nobody Wins! Nearly 20 million women and girls in the United States smoke cigarettes., Women smokers in certain age groups are more than 38 times as likely—to—develop COPD, compared with women who have never smoked, If days get rough while quitting smoking, keep pushing forward and remember that you have what it takes to be smokefree. For free help: CDC.gov/quitexternal icon, If days get rough while quitting smoking, keep pushing forward and remember that you have what it takes to be smokefree. For free help: CDC.gov/quitexternal icon #MondayMotivation pic.twitter.com/1bZhb8qhAqexternal icon, — CDC Tobacco Free (@CDCTobaccoFree) May 6, 2019, , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '6c84e357f74dc3b3f5e63e7be16eda7dd64a7f9a802844762486d5f030f81047', 'headline': 'State Fact Sheets | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 5, 12, 3, 53, 29, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/state-fact-sheets/index.htm', 'main_text': 'National Tobacco Control Program (NTCP) State Fact Sheets are available for all 50 states and the District of Columbia in the map below. The fact sheets present the latest nationally representative data available for each state in PDF format. Click on the map below to view the fact sheets.For more information on the data indicators in the NTCP State Fact Sheets, please access Data Sources and Methodologies documentpdf icon[PDF–650 KB] and References documentpdf icon[PDF–629 KB]., For questions about the NTCP State Fact Sheets, contact OSH., For additional information on state tobacco control program funding, see National Tobacco Control Program Funding., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'eb9aee4743431626534044984c51a70d3d674d50ca4e9e50ea4feb586d8c45a0', 'headline': 'Funding Opportunity Announcements | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 12, 9, 8, 55, 56, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/foa/index.htm', 'main_text': ' , Strong state-based public health programs focused on preventing smoking and tobacco use are critical to the nation’s health. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, provides information on locating and applying for current program funding opportunities and grants related to smoking and tobacco use prevention., For information about current CDC funding opportunities, visit Grants.Govexternal icon., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'd2ac130cf49b9bd68d735966be13e1c433aa71d96951c322da7c4154f5cf3dce', 'headline': 'Interagency Committee on Smoking and Health (ICSH) | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 2, 9, 3, 27, 43, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/icsh/index.htm', 'main_text': 'The Interagency Committee on Smoking and Health (ICSH) was established under Public Law 98-474 pdf icon[PDF–1.01 MB]external icon, the Comprehensive Smoking Education Act. The Committee was chartered in 1985 and advises the Secretary, Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), the Assistant Secretary for Health, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, on coordination of research, educational programs, and other activities within the Department that relate to the effect of smoking on human health, and on coordination of these activities with other Federal, State, local, and private agencies; establish and maintain a liaison with appropriate private entities, other Federal agencies, and State and local public agencies respecting activities relating to the effect of cigarette smoking on human health., Charterpdf icon [PDF-640 KB], To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '5529847ff19d797091fe6cd58c490e3250f151147a19394ddc48875c6862616d', 'headline': 'ICSH Membership Roster | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 9, 24, 7, 46, 8, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/icsh/membership/index.htm', 'main_text': 'VADM, ADAMS, Jerome M., M.D., M.P.H.U.S. Surgeon GeneralU.S. Department of Health and Human ServicesWashington, DC, GALLAGHER, KathrynAssociate Director for PolicyOffice on Smoking and HealthNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionCenters for Disease Control and PreventionAtlanta, GA, AHLUWALIA, Jasjit, M.D., M.P.H.Professor, Department of Behavioral and Social Sciences and Center for Alcohol and Addiction StudiesBrown University School of Public HealthProvidence, RI, Term: 03/12/2019-06/30/2022, DOBBINS, M. David, J.D, M.P.H.Chief Operating OfficerTruth InitiativeWashington, DC, Term: 10/15/2019-06/30/2023, KRISHNAN-SARIN, Suchitra Ph.D.Professor of Psychiatry, Yale University School of MedicineConnecticut Mental Health CenterNew Haven, CT, Term: 10/18/2019-06/30/2023, HENIGAN, Dennis, A., J.D.Vice President, Legal and Regulatory AffairsCampaign for Tobacco-Free KidsWashington, DC, Term: 7/15/2016-12/30/2020, HENRIKSEN, Lisa, Ph.D.Senior Research ScientistStanford Prevention Research CenterStanford University School of MedicinePalo Alto, CA, Term: 04/12/2019-06/30/2022, VACANTU.S. Department of DefenseArlington, VA, BOWLER, GinaLead – National Smoke-free Low-Income/Affordable Multiunit Housing InitiativeU.S. Environmental Protection AgencyWashington, DC, FAN, Tina, M.D., M.P.H.Medical OfficerAgency for Healthcare Research and QualityU.S. Department of Health and Human ServicesRockville, MD, GLASS, Roger, M.D, Ph.D.DirectorFogarty International CenterNational Institutes of HealthU.S. Department of Health &amp; Human ServicesWashington, DC, HOWARD, John, M.D.DirectorNational Institute for Occupational Safety and HealthU.S Department of Health and Human ServicesWashington, DC, KING, Rosalind B., Ph.D.Associate Director for PreventionEunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human DevelopmentU.S. Department of Health and Human ServicesBethesda, MD, MURRAY, David, Ph.D.Associate Director for PreventionDirector, Office of Disease PreventionNational Institutes of HealthU.S. Department of Health and Human ServicesBethesda, MD, SNYDER, John, M.D., M.S., M.P.H. (FACP)Chief Medical OfficerHealth Resources and Services AdministrationU.S. Department of Health and Human ServicesRockville, MD, TOEDT, Michael, M.D.Chief Medical OfficerIndian Health ServiceU.S. Department of Health &amp; Human ServicesRockville, MD, ASHLEY, Peter J., Dr.Ph.DirectorPolicy and Standards DivisionU.S. Department of Housing and Urban DevelopmentWashington, DC, CROYLE, Robert Ph.D.DirectorDivision of Cancer Control &amp; Population SciencesNational Cancer InstituteNational Institutes of HealthU.S. Department of Health and Human ServicesBethesda, MD, GIBBONS, Gary, M.D.DirectorNational Heart, Lung, and Blood InstituteNational Institutes of HealthU. S. Department of Health &amp; Human ServicesWashington, DC, HAMLETT- BERRY, Kim, Ph.D.National Program DirectorU.S. Department of Veterans AffairsWashington, DC, KESNER, PaulDirectorOffice of Safe and Healthy StudentsU.S. Department of EducationWashington, DC, KITTNER, Deirdre Lawrence Ph.D., M.P.H.Deputy Director for Regulatory ScienceCenter for Tobacco ProductsU.S. Food and Drug AdministrationBeltsville, MD, ROSSO, Rosemary, EsquireSenior AttorneyU.S. Federal Trade CommissionWashington, DC, TIPPERMAN, Douglas M.S.W.Tobacco Policy LiaisonU.S. Department of Health and Human ServicesRockville, MD, VOLKOW, Nora D., M.D.DirectorNational Institute on Drug AbuseNational Institutes of HealthU.S. Department of Health &amp; Human ServicesBethesda, MD, To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '1838ec31c78da1588e1d580f7398e61ed9db796d55095601ee9457e595c9bccf', 'headline': 'Newsroom | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 1, 11, 59, 27, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/newsroom/index.htm', 'main_text': ', This one-stop source for journalists seeking information on smoking and tobacco use provides access to the current year’s tobacco-related press releases, media statements, media transcripts, and links to facts and figures., , , , , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '694abbb76a3adf44745f91a06fa719c790bfa15d808ab3555c9576b7e94e76fe', 'headline': 'Stay Connected | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 16, 3, 42, 37, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/stay-connected/index.htm', 'main_text': 'We offer many ways to engage with our content and share information about tobacco-related campaigns and announcements. Stay connected through our profiles on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Pinterest. We encourage you to share your thoughts and stories and also to share our compelling videos and images on your own profiles to remind others of the dangers of tobacco use and encourage them to quit., Public health partners can choose which tobacco-related content to use on their sites and integrate tobacco-related content with localized content while keeping visitors on their sites., Download buttons and share widgets for up-to-date, credible, tobacco-related initiatives on your Web site, blog, or social network page., Subscribe to a free email subscription service, which allows you to receive tobacco-related and other topic alerts by email when new information is available., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '6b3c608c025de1d499f4552ad33d74144e511c4ea5355052b8213aae9fae36cc', 'headline': 'Organization | Office on Smoking and Health (OSH) | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 2, 10, 3, 3, 18, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/about/osh/organization/index.htm', 'main_text': 'To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'aa00ff9bfbf87ae98733815e21e55b577eb561fc8453849638f7de81be006f11', 'headline': 'Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use Features | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 18, 7, 4, 27, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/features/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Ten Years of Tips®, , Ten Years of Tips®, Tips for a New Year: Quit-Smoking Medicines, Also available in:, Breathe Easier – Quit Smoking, Also available in:, Protecting Young People From E-cigarettes, Also available in:, Take Pride in Your Health—Be Proud, Bold, and Smokefree!, Also available in:, World No Tobacco Day: Protect Our Youth, Also available in:, Quit for You, Quit for Your Loved Ones, Also available in:, Quit Smoking for Better Health, Looking Toward a Smokefree Future, Also available in:, Smokefree Through Generations, Quitlines 15th Anniversary, E-cigarettes: Talk to Youth About the Risks, Also available in:, Former Smokers and Their Families Speak Out, It’s Never Too Early to Quit Smoking, Also available in:, Celebrate This Veterans Day Tobacco Free, Also available in:, Keep Kids E-Cigarette Free, Also available in:, Your Healthy Home, Protect Your Heart from Tobacco,  , , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '1572e6e5bef2e820942cf04d52d44e661c22436ccd1e15db4115f5d2e4bb6de9', 'headline': 'Quit Smoking | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 2, 27, 12, 18, 10, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/quit_smoking/index.htm', 'main_text': 'For support in quitting, including free quit coaching, a free quit plan, free educational materials, and referrals to local resources, call 1-800-QUIT-NOW (1-800-784-8669)., Information on cessation behaviors of U.S. adults and youth., State Medicaid Coverage for Tobacco Cessation Treatments and Barriers to Accessing Treatments — United States, 2008–2018February 13, 2020 / Vol. 69 / 06, Tobacco Product Use and Cessation Indicators Among Adults — United States, 2018November 15, 2019 / Vol. 68 / No. 45, State-Specific Prevalence of Quit Attempts Among Adult Cigarette Smokers — United States, 2011–2017July 19, 2019 / Vol. 68 / No. 28, See More Quit Smoking/Cessation MMWRs, To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '2df69f7f38528cfece9828e8f4f040ee3a185d234dd679f5947fc23d6f6c618f', 'headline': 'How to Quit | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 8, 20, 9, 39, 15, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/quit_smoking/how_to_quit/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Quitting smoking is one of the most important steps you can take to improve your health. This is true no matter how old you are or how long you have smoked., Many people who smoke become addicted to nicotine, a drug that is found naturally in tobacco. This can make it hard to quit smoking. But the good news is there are proven treatments that can help you quit., , chevron circle right solid iconCan help you make a plan to quit smoking.chevron circle right solid iconCan help you prepare to cope with stress, urges to smoke, and other issues you may face when trying to quit.,  ,  ,  ,  , chevron circle right solid iconCan help you manage withdrawal symptoms and cravings, which helps you stay confident and motivated to quit., Use Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT)chevron circle right iconover-the-counter forms: patch, gum, lozengechevron circle right iconprescription forms: inhaler, nasal spray, Talk to your Healthcare Provider About Using a Pill Prescription Medicationchevron circle right iconvareniclinechevron circle right iconbupropion, Combine Medicationschevron circle right iconUse a long-acting form of NRT (nicotine patch) together with a short-acting form (such as nicotine gum or lozenge). Compared to using one form of NRT, this combination can further increase your chances of quitting., Using counseling and medication together gives you the best chance of quitting for good., chevron circle right iconCall a quitline coach (1-800-QUIT-NOW) orchevron circle right iconTalk to a healthcare professional., They can help you decide what treatment is best for you and can connect you to quit smoking programs and resources., Remember, even if you’ve tried before, the key to success is to keep trying and not give up. After all, more than half of U.S. adults who smoked have quit., For information about quitting smoking, visit CDC.gov/quit., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '9723c7c2082753c2dec4f817b1d336b4ca6327726e8cdbab37b2916b9e2451b2', 'headline': 'Benefits of Quitting | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 9, 23, 1, 40, 54, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/quit_smoking/how_to_quit/benefits/index.htm', 'main_text': ', Quitting smoking is one of the most important actions people can take to improve their health. This is true regardless of their age or how long they have been smoking.1, Quitting smoking1:, While quitting earlier in life yields greater health benefits, quitting smoking is beneficial to health at any age. Even people who have smoked for many years or have smoked heavily will benefit from quitting.1, Quitting smoking is the single best way to protect family members, coworkers, friends, and others from the health risks associated with breathing secondhand smoke.2, , Quitting smoking is one of the most important actions people who smoke can take to reduce their risk for cardiovascular disease., Quitting smoking1:, People already diagnosed with coronary heart disease also benefit from quitting smoking., Quitting smoking after a diagnosis of coronary heart disease1:, Quitting smoking is one of the most important actions people who smoke can take to reduce their risk for respiratory diseases., Quitting smoking:1,2, Quitting smoking is one of the most important actions people who smoke can take to reduce their risk for cancer., Quitting smoking reduces the risk of 12 different cancers, including1:, For cancer survivors, quitting smoking may improve prognosis and reduce risk of premature death., , Quitting smoking is one of the most important actions women who smoke can take for a healthy pregnancy and a healthy baby. The best time for women to quit smoking is before they try to get pregnant. But quitting at any time during pregnancy can benefit mother and baby’s health. 1, Quitting smoking:1, Over time, people who quit smoking see many benefits to their health. After quitting, the body begins a series of positive changes that continue for years. Some benefits of quitting smoking occur quickly while others occur over time:1,2,3,4, Minutes after quitting , 24 hours after quitting, Several days after quitting  , 1 to 12 months after quitting  , 1 to 2 years after quitting  , 3 to 6 years after quitting  , 5 to 10 years after quitting  , 10 years after quitting  , 15 years after quitting  , 20 years after quitting  , Reduced risks refer to cessation in comparison to continued smoking., Over time, people who quit smoking see many benefits to their health. After you smoke your last cigarette, your body begins a series of positive changes that continue for years., Risk of stroke decreases, Risk of cancers of the bladder, esophagus, and kidney decreases, Risk of pancreatic cancer drops to close to that of someone who does not smoke, Added risk of cervical cancer drops by about half, To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '2aeb61ea7d619ff31998c2fffb9094424d341ab9852d4a8f055baa539b8abd0c', 'headline': 'Cessation Materials for State Tobacco Control Programs | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 9, 10, 6, 49, 37, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/quit_smoking/cessation/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Tobacco cessation is a key component of OSH’s comprehensive approach to prevent and reduce tobacco use. Below are links to cessation references and resources including best practices, information on insurance coverage, health systems, and more., , Given the importance of cessation, OSH has designated 2019 as its Year of Cessation.,  , , , , , The USPSTF concludes that the current evidence is insufficient to assess the balance of benefits and harms of primary care–feasible interventions for the cessation of tobacco use among school-aged children and adolescents., , , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '9ce1c3434d70464a2420932a142de5251aa41221b73d05e81ef0c096dd74b926', 'headline': '2019: OSH’s Year of Cessation | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 1, 23, 6, 12, 41, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/quit_smoking/cessation/2019-year-of-cessation/index.html', 'main_text': ' , Quitting smoking is one of the most important things individuals can do to protect their health. Tobacco use remains the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States, and the changing landscape of tobacco use demands innovation to expand and improve efforts to help people quit., To bring attention to the critical role of cessation as part of a comprehensive tobacco prevention and control approach, OSH has declared 2019 its Year of Cessation., Learn more about OSH’s mission, vision, goals, and other information., Learn more about OSH’s Year of Cessation overarching goals., Access Year of Cessation resources created and released by Quarter., Hear personal stories from former smokers and access free resources, including Quitguide App and 1-800-Quit-Now., Throughout the year, OSH will amplify resources and activities that support people in quitting tobacco. OSH’s activities will align with three overarching goals:, The Year of Cessation focuses on different aspects of cessation policy, practice, and treatment through a quarterly framework, which begins and ends with a focus on helping people who use tobacco to quit., Year of Cessation resources will be created each Quarter. Once ready for release, they can be accessed below., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '7be7a43e70c4c56b0ecc92c231306a932e8ea3a409ff1a0f66778a2a3d95ff84', 'headline': 'National Quitline Data Warehouse | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 10, 7, 6, 26, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/quit_smoking/cessation/nqdw/index.htm', 'main_text': 'The National Quitline Data Warehouse (NQDW) was established to assist in the evaluation of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)-funded State and territorial quitlines and to provide a resource to states for ongoing tobacco control program evaluation and improvement., , Quitline services in all U.S. states can be accessed through a toll-free national portal number provided by the National Cancer Institute at 1-800-QUIT NOW (1-800-784-8669). Callers can access additional, language-specific quitline services via 1-855-DÉJELO-YA for service in Spanish (1-855-335-3569), 1-800-838-8917 for service in Mandarin or Cantonese, 1-800-556-5564 for service in Korean, and 1-800-778-8440 for service in Vietnamese., The NQDW collects data on services offered by state quitlines, such as hours of operation, available languages, criteria for receiving quitline counseling or free cessation medications, and amount of counseling and free medications offered to quitline callers. The NQDW also collects data on the number of calls received by state quitlines, the number of callers served by state quitlines and, in some cases, the types of services callers received. The NQDW collects individual-level, de-identified information on quitline callers, such as caller demographics, tobacco-use behaviors, how callers heard about the quitline, reason for calling, insurance type and status, pregnancy status, primary language of service, and mental health status., All 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the national Asian Smokers’ Quitline participate in and provide data to the NQDW. This consists of responding to the NQDW Quarterly Quitline Services Survey and providing de-identified quitline caller intake information to the NQDW. All U.S. states, territories, and quitlines participating in the NQDW currently respond to the NQDW Quarterly Services Survey. Presently, 49 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Asian Smokers’ Quitline provide de-identified quitline caller intake information to the NQDW1., NQDW data are used to:, , , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '5359d0c5f009afe829e3d7e5ad23023b13a3c108adfd10252417a5978e021ff8', 'headline': 'Basic Information | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 15, 8, 19, 52, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/index.htm', 'main_text': 'SMOKING HARMS NEARLY EVERY ORGAN OF THE BODY, , Smoking harms nearly every organ of the body, causing many diseases and affecting the health of smokers in general. Quitting smoking has immediate as well as long-term benefits for you and your loved ones., Information on diseases caused by tobacco use, such as cancer, heart disease, and respiratory diseases., Background information, guidance, and quit smoking resources for healthcare providers., Information on electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes), their contents, and health effects., Information on heated tobacco products that come in many forms and heat actual tobacco leaves., Find fact sheets on products and information on tobacco brand preferences and tobacco industry marketing., Information on secondhand smoke exposure, health effects, and smoke-free initiatives and resources., Find links to data, infographics, reports, national surveys, MMWRs, and other youth-related resources., Links to resources for healthcare providers as well as government, non-profits, and international resources., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'b60a1ac8de76217f1d39181ceec7385a89cfcce0fcc3ef08fe4dd533c87aa9db', 'headline': 'Health Effects | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 5, 6, 12, 59, 26, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/health_effects/index.htm', 'main_text': ' , Smoking leads to disease and disability and harms nearly every organ of the body.More than 16 million Americans are living with a disease caused by smoking. For every person who dies because of smoking, at least 30 people live with a serious smoking-related illness. Smoking causes cancer, heart disease, stroke, lung diseases, diabetes, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes emphysema and chronic bronchitis. Smoking also increases risk for tuberculosis, certain eye diseases, and problems of the immune system, including rheumatoid arthritis. , Secondhand smoke exposure contributes to approximately 41,000 deaths among nonsmoking adults and 400 deaths in infants each year.  Secondhand smoke causes stroke, lung cancer, and coronary heart disease in adults. Children who are exposed to secondhand smoke are at increased risk for sudden infant death syndrome, acute respiratory infections, middle ear disease, more severe asthma, respiratory symptoms, and slowed lung growth. , , , , U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Smoking—50 Years of Progress: A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2014 [accessed 2016 Dec 20]., , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '10819ee418e6aeb3a892795080948b5eb1de7a81bd24a5033ac5a65d6ae27c56', 'headline': 'Cancer | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 5, 6, 2, 48, 47, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/health_effects/cancer/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Cancer refers to diseases in which abnormal cells divide out of control and are able to invade other tissues. Cancer cells can spread to other parts of the body through the blood and lymph systems, which help the body get rid of toxins.1,2, There are more than 100 different types of cancer. Most cancers are named for the organ or type of cell in which they start—for example, lung cancer begins in the lung and laryngeal cancer begins in the larynx (voice box).1, Symptoms can include:3, Smoking can cause cancer and then block your body from fighting it:4, Doctors have known for years that smoking causes most lung cancers. It’s still true today, when nearly 9 out of 10 lung cancers are caused by smoking cigarettes. In fact, smokers have a greater risk for lung cancer today than they did in 1964, even though they smoke fewer cigarettes. One reason may be changes in how cigarettes are made and what chemicals they contain.5, Treatments are getting better for lung cancer, but it still kills more men and women than any other type of cancer. In the United States, more than 7,300 nonsmokers die each year from lung cancer caused by secondhand smoke.6 Secondhand smoke is the combination of smoke from the burning end of a cigarette and the smoke breathed out by smokers., Smoking can cause cancer almost anywhere in your body, including the:5, Men with prostate cancer who smoke may be more likely to die from these diseases than nonsmokers.5, Smokeless tobacco, such as chewing tobacco, also causes cancer, including cancers of the:7, Quitting smoking lowers the risks for cancers of the lung, mouth, throat, esophagus, and larynx.4,8, If nobody smoked, one of every three cancer deaths in the United States would not happen.4, Research shows that screening for cervical and colorectal cancers, as recommended, helps prevent these diseases.  Screening for cervical and colorectal cancers helps find these diseases at an early, and often highly treatable, stage. CDC offers free or low-cost cervical cancer screening nationwide.2, Health care reform through the Affordable Care Act increases access to cervical and colorectal cancer screening through expanded insurance coverage and eliminating cost-sharing. In addition, CDC’s Screen for Life: National Colorectal Cancer Action Campaign informs men and women aged 50 years and older about the importance of having regular colorectal cancer screening tests.9, People who have smoked for many years may consider screening for lung cancer with low-dose computed tomography (LDCT). Talk to your doctor about lung cancer screening and the possible benefits and risks. Lung cancer screening is not a substitute for quitting smoking., The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends annual screening for lung cancer with low-dose computed tomography in adults aged 55 to 80 years who have a 30 pack-year smoking history and currently smoke or have quit within the past 15 years. Screening should be discontinued once a person has not smoked for 15 years or develops a health problem that substantially limits life expectancy or the ability or willingness to have curative lung surgery.14, The treatment for cancer depends on the type of cancer and the stage of the disease (how severe the cancer is and whether it has spread). Doctors may also consider the patient’s age and general health. Often, the goal of treatment is to cure the cancer. In other cases, the goal is to control the disease or to reduce symptoms for as long as possible. The treatment plan for a person may change over time.7, Most treatment plans include surgery, radiation therapy, or chemotherapy. Other plans involve biological therapy (a treatment that helps your immune system fight cancer).3, Some cancers respond best to a single type of treatment. Other cancers may respond best to a combination of treatments.3, For patients who get very high doses of chemotherapy or radiation therapy, a stem cell transplant, also known as a bone marrow transplant, may be recommended by their doctor. This is because high-dose therapies destroy both cancer cells and normal blood cells. A stem cell transplant can help the body to make healthy blood cells to replace the ones lost due to the cancer treatment. It’s a complicated procedure with many side effects and risks.12, Quitting smoking improves the outlook (the prognosis) for people with cancer. People who continue to smoke after diagnosis raise their risk for future cancers and death. They are more likely to die from cancer than nonsmokers and are more likely to develop a second (new) tobacco-related cancer.5,13,  , An ostomy (or stoma) is a surgical opening made to the body that allows waste to be eliminated from the body.10 Ostomies are used in treatment or management of cancer or other diseases.11 Ostomies are needed when the body’s normal opening is closed or altered as part of cancer treatment. An ostomy pouch is located around the opening to collect waste for removal. Ostomies are usually done during the first stages of surgical treatment to remove cancer.10 For colorectal cancer patients, a colostomy (surgical openings from the bowel or colon to the abdomen) can be a lifesaving surgery.10,11 An ostomy can be temporary or permanent.10,11 Temporary ostomies are used while the affected area of the body heals. Permanent ostomies are used when cancer has resulted in the removal of the entire colon or the end of it.10,11, The United Ostomy Associations of America, Inc.external icon Web site focuses on the positive quality of life people can attain following ostomy surgery and provides information on a variety of topics, including:, To see if there is a support group in your area, visit United Ostomy Associations of America, Inc.’s support group Web siteexternal icon., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '594d4d23f5678efb13de7d47bece7d92120cc11902a5146b5c7d375ed1a26a7b', 'headline': 'Heart Disease and Stroke | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 5, 6, 1, 3, 3, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/health_effects/heart_disease/index.htm', 'main_text': ', Heart disease and stroke are cardiovascular (heart and blood vessel) diseases (CVDs).1, Heart disease includes several types of heart conditions. The most common type in the United States is coronary heart disease (also known as coronary artery disease), which is narrowing of the blood vessels that carry blood to the heart.2,3 This can cause:, A stroke occurs when the blood supply to the brain is blocked or when a blood vessel in the brain bursts, causing brain tissue to die.7 Stroke can cause disability (such as paralysis, muscle weakness, trouble speaking, memory loss)8 or death.,  Top of Page, Smoking is a major cause of CVD and causes one of every four deaths from CVD.9 Smoking can:10,  Top of Page, Breathing secondhand smoke also harms your health. Secondhand smoke is the smoke from burning tobacco products.9,11,12 Secondhand smoke also is smoke breathed out by a smoker.11,12, Breathing secondhand smoke can cause coronary heart disease, including heart attack and stroke.9,11,13 Know the facts:9,  Top of Page, Heart disease and stroke are major causes of death and disability in the United States. Many people are at high risk for these diseases and don’t know it. The good news is that many risk factors for heart disease and stroke can be prevented or controlled., The federal government’s Million Hearts®external icon initiative aims to prevent 1 million heart attacks and strokes by 2017. It’s important to know your risk for heart disease and stroke and to take action to reduce that risk. A good place to start is with the ABCS of heart health:14, In addition to your ABCS, several lifestyle choices can help protect your heart and brain health. These include the following:13,14,  Top of Page, Brian, one of the 2016 Tips® campaign participants, had a heart attack at age 35. He learned how important it was to quit—and to stay quit. By doing so, he eventually qualified for and received a precious gift—a heart transplant., For more information about the benefits of quitting, see the American Heart Association’s Web page entitled “Why Quit Smoking?external icon” This page provides information about smoking and coronary heart disease, including:, For more information about organ donation, go to organdonor.govexternal icon. This Web site includes:,  Top of Page, , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '72ed0799e997a9c71dca052d6d3193215e386d964e3863546abd0172a9fa75f5', 'headline': 'Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 5, 6, 3, 49, 38, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/health_effects/respiratory/index.htm', 'main_text': ', Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) refers to a group of diseases that cause airflow blockage and breathing-related problems. COPD includes emphysema; chronic bronchitis; and in some cases, asthma.1, With COPD, less air flows through the airways—the tubes that carry air in and out of your lungs—because of one or more of the following:2,3, In the early stages of COPD, there may be no symptoms, or you may only have mild symptoms, such as:4, As the disease gets worse, symptoms may include:4, How severe your COPD symptoms are depends on how damaged your lungs are. If you keep smoking, the damage will get worse faster than if you stop smoking.4 Among 15 million U.S. adults with COPD, 39% continue to smoke.5,  Top of Page, COPD is usually caused by smoking.3   Smoking accounts for as many as 8 out of 10 COPD-related deaths.6 However, as many as 1 out of 4 Americans with COPD never smoked cigarettes.5, Smoking during childhood and teenage years can slow how lungs grow and develop. This can increase the risk of developing COPD in adulthood.7,  Top of Page, The best way to prevent COPD is to never start smoking, and if you smoke, quit.8 Talk with your doctor about programs and products that can help you quit. Also, stay away from secondhand smoke, which is smoke from burning tobacco products, such as cigarettes, cigars, or pipes.6,9,10  Secondhand smoke also is smoke that has been exhaled, or breathed out, by a person smoking.9,10,  Top of Page, Treatment of COPD requires a careful and thorough exam by a doctor.1 Quitting smoking is the most important first step you can take to treat COPD. Avoiding secondhand smoke is also critical. Other lifestyle changes and treatments include one or more of the following:, Even though there is no cure for COPD, these lifestyle changes and treatments can help you breathe easier, stay more active, and slow the progress of the disease.11,  Top of Page, The following resources provide information and support to people with COPD and their caregivers:,  Top of Page, To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '81498e93036f1c509075edaa13b68975e52160545fa2d3edc05e41a33be43e84', 'headline': 'Smoking During Pregnancy | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 5, 6, 1, 5, 10, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/health_effects/pregnancy/index.htm', 'main_text': ', To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'bd9bc026e1cdad7091765856891f86381277508f794da0e196979a5d30441f21', 'headline': 'Equality in Smoking &amp; Disease: Nobody Wins! | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use! | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 5, 6, 1, 8, 28, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/health_effects/women-smoking/index.htm', 'main_text': ', , DURING THE, 60’s and 70’s, TOBACCO COMPANIES, TARGETED WOMEN., , In the last 50 years, a woman’s risk of, dying from smoking has, ______________, MORE, THAN, TRIPLED, ______________, and is now equal to a, man’s risk., , WOMEN, WHO SMOKE, ARE, MORE, LIKELY, ______________, to die from COPD, than men who smoke., MORE THAN, 200,000, WOMEN DIE EVERY YEAR, ______________, from smoking-related disease, compared with 270,000 men, who die from smoking-related, disease every year., , , WOMEN SMOKERS SHOULD QUIT SMOKING., For help, they can visit women.smokefree.govexternal icon or call 1-800-QUIT-NOW., , , PRINT ONLY PDF pdf icon[PDF–2 MB], To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '09b7ea282016d7e0436cb36c70712fd927de929fdea186010d231c8938d37f34', 'headline': 'Healthcare Provider Resources | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 27, 4, 35, 3, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/for-health-care-providers/index.html', 'main_text': 'Tobacco dependence is a chronic, relapsing disorder that, like other chronic diseases, often requires repeated intervention and long-term support.1 The majority of people who use tobacco want to quit, but most try to quit multiple times before succeeding.2, Healthcare providers in a variety of settings play a critical role in helping people quit using tobacco.1 Even brief advice from you can make it much more likely that your patients will try to quit—and ultimately succeed.1 Evidence-based treatment—including counseling and cessation medications approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)—significantly increases success in quitting tobacco.1,3 You can make a difference!, Using the resources below, you can help ensure that your patients have the right tools to begin their quit journeys., Visit the Health Effects page for more information about the health consequences of tobacco use., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'cda239f0522fb9fd890b0ab1f085d94ab5d9ec28a850dc1c3f78e63dab272f40', 'headline': 'Clinical Tools | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 10, 6, 7, 18, 30, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/for-health-care-providers/clinical-tools/index.html', 'main_text': ', A Practical Guide to Help Your Patients Quit Using Tobacco [PDF–646 KB], The resources below present the most recent evidence and clinical guidelines for treating tobacco use and dependence. You will also find usable tools to guide your practice and help you integrate tobacco treatment into routine clinical care., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '5e45cc6c0eed26a28c5ac01115d1b1dac351ef79b32b7906b24d4ca5567f299b', 'headline': 'Patient Resources | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 10, 8, 4, 26, 45, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/for-health-care-providers/patient-resources/index.html', 'main_text': 'These resources, some printable, can help you start a conversation about cessation with patients and remind them that quitting tobacco use is a commitment to better health., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'a28fe7c6511388f4add0d8ef40c05a865c41998ec4b397b857c233106fcd9f78', 'headline': 'Quitlines and Other Cessation Support Resources | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 1, 15, 6, 58, 15, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/for-health-care-providers/quitlines-other/index.html', 'main_text': 'A broad range of cessation support resources are available for patients who want to quit using tobacco. Combined with your ongoing monitoring, support, and treatment, referring patients to a quitline or other cessation resource can improve their chances of quitting., Free quit help:1-800-QUIT-NOW(1-800-784-8669), In Spanish:1-855-DÉJELO-YA(1-855-335-3569), In Asian languages:Mandarin and Cantonese: 1-800-838-8917Korean: 1-800-556-5564Vietnamese: 1-800-778-8440, In addition to your treatment and support, referring your patient to a quitline, like 1-800-QUIT-NOW, can improve their chances of quitting. Quitlines provide free and confidential coaching to help your patients become—and stay—smoke free. Calling a quitline might be just what they need to quit for good. Many thanks to the California Smokers’ Helpline for their participation in the creation of this video., Quitlines are effective, evidence-based tobacco cessation interventions that help tobacco users quit through a variety of service offerings, including counseling, practical information on how to quit, referral to other cessation resources, and mailed self-help materials.1, Quitlines:, Quitlines may offer a variety of other services, such as web-assisted tobacco interventions and text messaging. They also offer information and support for family, friends, and healthcare professionals who want to help tobacco users quit., Some state quitlines offer free cessation medications or provide tobacco users with vouchers or discounts to receive these medications at reduced cost. Most quitlines also offer counseling protocols and materials designed for specific populations, such as pregnant women or smokers with chronic diseases. For information on your state’s quitline services, visit the NAQC Quitline Mapexternal icon. Simply click on your state to view the quitline profile page., Quitlines are effective, evidence-based treatments for smoking cessation. The evidence base for tobacco cessation quitlines was established through numerous clinical trials and meta-analyses. After an exhaustive review of the randomized clinical trial research literature, the 2008 update to the Public Health Service’s Clinical Practice Guideline Treating Tobacco Use and Dependence concluded that quitlines increase 6-month smoking cessation quit rates compared with no intervention (the Guideline reported quit rates among quitline users of 12.7% for counseling alone and 28.1% for counseling plus medication) and therefore recommended the use of quitlines to help tobacco users quit.2 Quitlines have been shown to be a cost-effective intervention.3, Yes. All 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and Guam operate quitlines that can be accessed through the 1-800-QUIT-NOW quitline (operated by the National Cancer Institute). This toll-free number automatically transfers callers to their state quitline. This easy-to-remember number allows for national promotion of quitline services. Healthcare professionals can refer patients who are interested in quitting to 1-800-QUIT-NOW., When patients call the quitline, they will be asked about their tobacco use, previous quit attempts, how they heard about the quitline, and some basic demographic questions, including gender, age, race/ethnicity, and education level. Citizenship documentation is not asked. This initial process usually takes about 10 minutes. All information collected is kept strictly confidential and is treated as protected health information., Callers then receive information about the services the quitline offers. If a caller is interested in receiving mailed self-help materials, an address is taken and materials are typically shipped within 24 hours. If a caller would like referrals to local cessation services or information on Web-based cessation help, that information is provided. If a caller is interested in receiving cessation counseling, he/she is typically transferred to a tobacco cessation counselor. Cessation counselors are highly trained professionals who are skilled in motivational interviewing and delivering client-centered interventions. The counseling session may focus on creating a tailored quit plan, providing medication or decision support in choosing medications, and discussing tips and tools for overcoming everyday urges to smoke., It is important to note that during times of heavy call volume (especially during national media campaigns that promote 1-800-QUIT-NOW), a cessation counselor may not be immediately available. In these cases, the quitline will schedule an appropriate call-back time with the caller., The majority of states do not have eligibility criteria for providing quitline counseling beyond being a state resident. Many states also require that callers be interested in quitting tobacco in the next 30 days. However, some states may have more detailed eligibility criteria or may prioritize multiple call services or free medications for those meeting specific criteria (e.g., uninsured, Medicaid insured, etc.). For specific details on your state quitline’s eligibility criteria, visit the NAQC Quitline Mapexternal icon. Click on your state to view the quitline profile page., After asking if a patient uses tobacco and advising them to quit if they do, you will need to determine if they are ready to quit. For those patients who are not ready to quit, remind them that you have resources to help them quit when they are ready., If a patient is ready to quit, you can refer them to your state quitline in one of two ways:, To learn more about conducting brief tobacco interventions, see this Medscape videoexternal icon., The majority of funding for state quitlines comes from state Master Settlement Agreement funds, state general funds, and state tobacco taxes. In addition, some quitlines have partnerships with health insurance plans and/or employers to offer qualifying callers with expanded quitline and cessation services. To learn more about how your state quitline is funded, visit Quitline Administration and Financingexternal icon., You can refer Spanish-speaking patients who want to quit to 1-855-DÉJELO-YA (1-855-335-3569), which means “Quit it now.” This Spanish-language quitline, which is operated by the National Cancer Institute, functions similarly to 1-800-QUIT-NOW, with callers being automatically routed to their state quitline where they can receive services in Spanish., The Asian Smokers’ Quitlineexternal icon, which is operated by the Moores Cancer Center at the University of California, San Diego, with funding from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, offers free nationwide telephone assistance for Chinese, Korean, and Vietnamese speakers who want to quit smoking., To learn more about languages supported by your state’s quitline, including services provided to those who are deaf and hard-of-hearing, visit the NAQC Quitline Mapexternal icon. Simply click on your state to view the quitline profile page., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'bf7659632fadee1a25748e5ef147e4e0c74428bf16b4ee67313c33bfdc16c430', 'headline': 'Education and Training | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 27, 6, 46, 22, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/for-health-care-providers/education-training/index.html', 'main_text': 'Talking to patients about quitting tobacco and tracking their quit progress helps them understand that you, as a clinician, are on their side. However, you may not be sure how to start the conversation. Below are training resources offering evidence-based information and practical advice to help your patients quit., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '62b53f595b4100739dba51ec4470d926359fe6d730b061e0ed085764d941008c', 'headline': 'E-Cigarettes | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use |  CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 11, 6, 4, 32, 49, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/for-health-care-providers/e-cigarettes/index.html', 'main_text': 'Your patients may have asked you about e-cigarettes. You may have questions yourself. The following resources provide the latest information and science about e-cigarettes and can help you start conversations about this topic with patients of all ages., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '69ee17555f2c3685b5068b42d9c42c09219e8df0fcf14ff8ce84e6b0e8ee3d0a', 'headline': 'Electronic Cigarettes', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 9, 9, 5, 33, 21, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/e-cigarettes/index.htm', 'main_text': 'E-cigarettes are sometimes called “e-cigs,” “vapes,” “e-hookahs,” “vape pens,” and “electronic nicotine delivery systems (ENDS).” Some e-cigarettes look like regular cigarettes, cigars, or pipes. Some look like USB flash drives, pens, and other everyday items., , This product is intended for educational purposes only for public health officials and healthcare providers. The devices and brands presented in this pamphlet are intended to highlight the different e-cigarette, or vaping, product generations and substances used in these devices., “One Brain” PSA Transcript pdf icon[PDF – 14KB], To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '86bd95b61945f04b4f0964277847a8bce775084c6328ff440ae91d18deee7d2f', 'headline': 'For Healthcare Providers | Electronic Cigarettes | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 3, 17, 7, 57, 20, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/e-cigarettes/severe-lung-disease/healthcare-providers/index.html', 'main_text': 'CDC encourages clinicians to continue to report possible cases of e-cigarette, or vaping, product use-associated lung injury (EVALI) to their local or state health department for further investigation., If EVALI is suspected, health care providers should ask about the use of e-cigarette, or vaping, products in a confidential and nonjudgmental manner.   The most critical step in assessing EVALI is to ask patients about recent use of e-cigarette, or vaping, products. If product use is confirmed, ask about the types of substances used (e.g., [tetrahydrocannabinol] THC and nicotine) and where they were obtained., Interim guidance for healthcare providers for managing patients with suspected EVALI can be found here, and is summarized in a management algorithmpdf icon and discharge readiness checklistpdf icon. Hospitalized patients should be documented as clinically stable for 24-48 hours prior to discharge and have close post-discharge follow-up (optimally within 48 hours of discharge) as outlined in this interim guidance., ICD-10-CM coding guidancepdf icon for healthcare encounters related to EVALI are also available., , CDC will continue to update guidance related to EVALI as appropriate., EVALI remains a diagnosis of exclusion because, at present, no specific test or marker exists for its diagnosis, and evaluation should be guided by clinical judgment. Rapid recognition of EVALI patients by healthcare providers is critical to reduce severe outcomes., Influenza cannot be distinguished from EVALI by signs, symptoms, clinical features at presentation (medical examination), or testing. Acute respiratory illness in a patient with a history of e-cigarette/vaping and THC exposure could be caused by influenza viruses, other respiratory infections, EVALI, or all of the above., Patient Interview, When evaluating patients with respiratory symptoms (e.g., cough, chest pain, and shortness of breath), gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, and diarrhea), or nonspecific constitutional symptoms (e.g., fever, chills, and weight loss):, Physical Examination, Laboratory Testing and Imaging , Influenza Testing and Empiric Antimicrobial, including Antiviral Treatment, Consideration of Outpatient Management, Corticosteroid Treatment , Discharge Planning, Post- Discharge Follow-Up, Considerations at Point of Care, Report cases of EVALI to your state or local health department., If you have questions about CDC’s investigation into the lung injuries associated with use of e-cigarette, or vaping, products, contact CDC-INFO or call 1-800-232-4636., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '426f26a9ab1fc170e9f57583ed873a3d47f9ad7bde208f63848e2868c91e3fdb', 'headline': 'For State, Local, Territorial, and Tribal Health Departments | Electronic Cigarettes | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 10, 2, 7, 38, 39, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/e-cigarettes/severe-lung-disease/health-departments/index.html', 'main_text': 'CDC will continue to update guidance related to EVALI as appropriate., , CDC and FDA have worked together to coordinate analysis of e-cigarette, or vaping, products to provide insight into the nature of the chemical exposure(s) contributing to the lung injury outbreak., 2019 Lung Injury Surveillance Primary Case Definition (CDC) – September 18, 2019, Download a printable PDF version of 2019 Lung Injury Surveillance Primary Case Definition (CDC) – September 18, 2019 pdf icon[PDF – 179 KB]., CONFIRMED CASE, Using an e-cigarette (“vaping”) or dabbing* in 90 days prior to symptom onset, AND, Pulmonary infiltrate, such as opacities, on plain film chest radiograph or ground-glass opacities on chest CT, AND, Absence of pulmonary infection on initial work-up. Minimum criteria are:, AND, AND, AND, No evidence in medical record of alternative plausible diagnoses (e.g., cardiac, rheumatologic, or neoplastic process)., PROBABLE CASE, Using an e-cigarette (“vaping”) or dabbing* in 90 days prior to symptom onset, Pulmonary infiltrate, such as opacities, on plain film chest radiograph or ground-glass opacities on chest CT, Infection identified via culture or PCR, but clinical team** believes this infection is not the sole cause of the underlying lung injury OR  Minimum criteria to rule out pulmonary infection not met (testing not performed) and clinical team** believes infection is not the sole cause of the underlying lung injury, No evidence in medical record of alternative plausible diagnoses (e.g., cardiac, rheumatologic, or neoplastic process)., FOOTNOTES, * Using an electronic device (e.g., electronic nicotine delivery system (ENDS), electronic cigarette, e-cigarette, vaporizer, vape(s), vape pen, dab pen, or other device) or dabbing to inhale substances (e.g., nicotine, marijuana, THC, THC concentrates, CBD, synthetic cannabinoids, flavorings, or other substances)., **Clinical team caring for the patient., Notes: These case definitions are meant for surveillance and not clinical diagnosis. These case definitions are subject to change and will be updated as additional information becomes available if needed., 2019 Lung Injury Surveillance Case Definition for Out-of-Hospital Deaths (CDC) – October 4, 2019, Download a printable PDF version of 2019 Lung Injury Surveillance Case Definition for Out-of-Hospital Deaths (CDC) – October 4, 2019 pdf icon[PDF – 67 KB]., CONFIRMED CASE, History of e-cigarette product use, or vaping,* in the 90 days prior to death, AND, Pathologic evidence of acute lung injury (e.g., diffuse alveolar damage, acute fibrinous pneumonitis or bronchiolitis, or organizing pneumonia often with vacuolated or foamy macrophages and/or pneumocytes), AND, Absence of pulmonary infection** (e.g. influenza, S. pneumoniae, Legionella, and other infectious diseases, including HIV-related infections as appropriate, as evidenced by microscopy, immunohistology, microbiology***, or molecular testing), AND, No evidence of alternative plausible diagnoses for the lung injury in medical record or at autopsy, PROBABLE CASE, History of e-cigarette product use, or vaping,* in the 90 days prior to death, AND, Pathologic evidence of acute lung injury (i.e., diffuse alveolar damage, acute fibrinous pneumonitis or bronchiolitis, or organizing pneumonia often with vacuolated or foamy macrophages and/or pneumocytes), AND, A positive result on testing for pulmonary infection** (e.g., influenza, S. pneumoniae, Legionella, and other infectious diseases, including HIV-related infections as appropriate, as evidenced by microscopy, immunohistology, microbiology***, or molecular testing), however medical examiner or other forensic pathologist believes infection is not the sole cause of the underlying lung injury, AND, No evidence of alternative plausible diagnoses for the lung injury in medical record or at autopsy, FOOTNOTES, * Using an electronic device (e.g., electronic nicotine delivery system (ENDS), electronic cigarette, e-cigarette, vaporizer, vape(s), vape pen, dab pen, or other device) to inhale substances (e.g., nicotine, marijuana, THC, THC concentrates, CBD, synthetic cannabinoids, flavorings, or other substances). This definition also includes “dabbing,” which involves superheating substances that contain high concentrations of THC and other plant compounds (e.g., cannabidiol) with the intent of inhaling the aerosol., ** Does not include positive results from postmortem microbiologic testing thought to represent normal viral or bacterial colonization of nasopharynx, or postmortem bacterial overgrowth of lung tissues or blood., *** Recommended microbiology: Nasopharyngeal and/or lung swab testing for influenza, lung swab testing for respiratory viruses, postmortem cultures of lung tissue and blood. Interpretation of postmortem cultures may be complicated because of bacterial overgrowth resulting from tissue breakdown.  Medical examiners and other forensic pathologists should contact their local or state health department for assistance if such testing is not readily available at their agency.  Fixed autopsy tissue specimens can also be sent to the Infectious Diseases Pathology Branch at CDC for histopathologic evaluation, and infectious disease testing, including immunohistochemistry and molecular testing, as indicated. Refer to Infectious Diseases Pathology Branch (IDPB) General Guidelines for Specimen Submission for more information., If you have questions about CDC’s investigation into the lung injuries associated with use of e-cigarette, or vaping, products, contact CDC-INFO or call 1-800-232-4636., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'f57dc91a717cc178cd452d25e3783b82b828bc673db7a82c062c14431396f39c', 'headline': 'Frequently Asked Questions | Electronic Cigarettes | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 12, 1, 1, 14, 51, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/e-cigarettes/severe-lung-disease/faq/index.html', 'main_text': '[Why did CDC stop reporting on the number of EVALI cases in February 2020?, In August 2019, CDC started collecting data from states on EVALI cases using a standardized case report form. The data were voluntarily collected and submitted by each state to CDC on a routine basis. Due to the subsequent identification of the primary cause of EVALI, and the considerable decline in EVALI cases and deaths since a peak in September 2019, CDC stopped collecting these data from states as of February 2020., However, CDC continues to monitor EVALI-related trends using emergency department data from the National Syndromic Surveillance Program’s BioSense/ESSENCE platform. These data do not suggest a resurgence of EVALI at this time., CDC encourages clinicians to continue to report possible cases of EVALI to their local or state health department for further investigation., , What are symptoms of EVALI?, Who should I contact if I have questions about EVALI?, What is vitamin E acetate and why might it be in these-cigarette, or vaping, products?, Why might vitamin E acetate be harmful?, What are e-cigarette, or vaping, products?, What is marijuana (THC)?, What are the health risks of marijuana (THC)?, How does marijuana use in e-cigarette, or vaping, products affect youths?, What should I do if I am currently using marijuana/THC in an e-cigarette, or vaping, product for medical use?,  How are states regulating THC-containing e-cigarette, or vaping, products?, Should I get vaccinated for the flu if using e-cigarettes, or vaping, products?, Flu is especially dangerous for pregnant women, people of any age with certain long-term health conditions, people 65 and older, and young children. Check out Key Facts About Seasonal Flu Vaccine for more information., If experiencing symptoms of lung injury, please see a healthcare provider right away., CDC Resources, FDA Resources, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration Resources, Quitting Resources, National Institute on Drug Abuse for Teens, More Resources: Frequently Asked Questions', 'reports': []}, {'id': '81d06573d1bb3d415a07c5a3fd4f7afe4e7578ef3676394125274228a1e1f386', 'headline': 'Resources &amp; Publications | Electronic Cigarettes | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 9, 29, 7, 57, 25, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/e-cigarettes/severe-lung-disease/resources/index.html', 'main_text': 'Publications and resources related to e-cigarette, or vaping, product-use associated lung injury (EVALI) are available for the public, healthcare providers, and state and local health departments., CDC Resources, FDA Resources, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration Resources, Quitting Resources, National Institute on Drug Abuse for Teens, , , Clinical Resources, Algorithm for Management of Patients with Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, or Constitutional Symptoms and E-cigarette, or Vaping, Product Use (12/20/2019) pdf icon[print-only PDF – 120 KB]The purpose of this algorithm is to provide a brief summary of the Update: Interim Guidance for Health Care Professionals Evaluating and Caring for Patients with Suspected E-cigarette, or Vaping, Product Use–Associated Lung Injury and for Reducing the Risk for Rehospitalization and Death Following Hospital Discharge — United States, December 2019., EVALI Discharge Readiness Checklist pdf icon[PDF – 110 KB]This checklist can be used to assist with planning towards the safe discharge of patients hospitalized with EVALI., Don’t Forget to Ask: Assessing the Risk of Lung Injury in Patients Using E-Cigarette, or Vaping, Products pdf icon[PDF – 129kb]This fact sheet covers best practices for assessing the risk of lung injury in patients using e-cigarette, or vaping, products. Learn how to ask patients about e-cigarette, or vaping, product use., Case Study: A Teen With Cough: Could This Be Vaping Related?external iconEarly diagnosis of EVALI and appropriate treatment remains critical to improving patient outcomes. Challenge yourself with a Medscape Case Study that illustrates key EVALI evaluation and treatment scenarios., International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Edition, Clinical Modification (ICD-10-CM)-Supplementpdf icon [PDF – 160 KB]The purpose of this document is to provide official diagnosis coding guidance for healthcare encounters related to the 2019 healthcare encounters and deaths related to e-cigarette, or vaping, product use associated lung injury (EVALI). This guidance is consistent with current clinical knowledge about disorders associated with the use of e-cigarette, or vaping, products., Specimen Guidance, Laboratory Clinical Sample Collection and Storage Guidance for E-Cigarette, or Vaping, Product Use-Associated Lung Injury (EVALI)pdf icon[PDF – 246 KB]The purpose of this document is to provide general clinical specimen collection and storage guidance for healthcare providers and public health laboratory personnel involved in the care of patients who meet, or are highly suspected of meeting, the case definition for EVALI., Clinician Outreach and Communication Activity (COCA), COCA Webinar – Update: Interim Guidance for Healthcare Providers regarding the Management Approach of Patients with Suspected E-cigarette, or Vaping, Product Use-Associated Lung Injury (EVALI)On November 21, 2019, CDC experts described updates to prior interim recommendations for U.S. healthcare providers evaluating and managing patients with suspected or known lung injury associated with e-cigarette, or vaping, product use, with particular considerations for outpatient management and for influenza season, as published in MMWR on November 19, 2019., COCA Webinar – Update: Interim Guidance for Health Care Providers Evaluating and Caring for Patients with Suspected E-cigarette or Vaping Product Use Associated Lung InjuryOn October 17, 2019, CDC experts described updates to prior interim recommendations for U.S. healthcare providers caring for patients with suspected or known lung injury associated with e-cigarette or vaping products as published in MMWR on October 11, 2019., COCA Webinar – Outbreak of Lung Injury Associated with E-cigarette Product Use or Vaping: Information for CliniciansOn September 19, 2019, CDC experts described e-cigarette and vaping terminology related to e-cigarette, or vaping, products; summarized frequent Clinical, Laboratory, Radiographic, and Pathologic Findings and Outcomes among cases; and discussed recommendations for clinicians., Poster for Clinical Settings, This Poster for Clinical Settings is available in English and Spanish for use in healthcare settings to encourage conversation between patients and providers about their use of e-cigarette, or vaping, products., CDC Resources, Resources from the Surgeon General, EVALI Public Service AnnouncementThis public service announcement (PSA) and script provides information about EVALI. The script and PSA can be used for “live ads” or for radio stations or media outlets by states or other partners., Lung Injury Associated with E-cigarette Use or Vaping National Case Formpdf icon [print-only PDF – 264 KB](also available in Spanishpdf icon [print-only PDF – 304 KB])The purpose of this document is to provide guidance for local and state health departments to report any probable or confirmed patient case of EVALI and transmit data to CDC using the Data Collection and Integration for Public Health (DCIPHER) platform, or by contacting CDC at EVALI@cdc.gov., Laboratory Clinical Sample Collection and Storage Guidance for E-Cigarette, or Vaping, Product Use-Associated Lung Injury (EVALI)pdf icon[PDF – 246 KB]The purpose of this document is to provide general clinical specimen collection and storage guidance for healthcare providers and public health laboratory personnel involved in the care of patients who meet, or are highly suspected of meeting, the case definition for EVALI., Video: E-Cigarette 101, The Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO) and CDC’s Office on Smoking and Health (OSH) recently developed a video with CDC expert Dr. Brian King giving an ‘e-cigarette 101’ talk for clinicians and public health professionals., CDC Resources, FDA Resources, Hospitalizations and Deaths Associated with EVALIexternal iconThis report compares the characteristics of patients with fatal cases of EVALI with those of patients with nonfatal cases to improve the ability of clinicians to identify patients at increased risk of death from the condition. Data show that chronic conditions, including cardiac and respiratory diseases and mental health conditions, were common among hospitalized patients with EVALI., Update: Characteristics of a Nationwide Outbreak of E-cigarette, or Vaping, Product Use–Associated Lung Injury — United States, August 2019–January 2020This report updates patient demographic characteristics, self-reported substance use, and hospitalization dates for EVALI patients reported to CDC by states, as well as the distribution of emergency department (ED) visits related to e-cigarette, or vaping, products. Data show that ED visits related to e-cigarette, or vaping, products continue to decline, after sharply increasing in August 2019 and peaking in September., Characteristics of Persons Who Report Using Only Nicotine-Containing Products Among Interviewed Patients with E-cigarette, or Vaping, Product Use–Associated Lung Injury — Illinois, August–December 2019This report examines EVALI patients who report using only nicotine-containing e-cigarette, or vaping, products in Illinois. Findings suggest that the contributing cause or causes of EVALI for individuals reporting use of only nicotine-containing products warrants further study., Update: Product, Substance-Use, and Demographic Characteristics of Hospitalized Patients in a Nationwide Outbreak of E-cigarette, or Vaping, Product Use–Associated Lung Injury — United States, August 2019–January 2020This report updates patient demographic characteristics, self-reported substance use, and e-cigarette, or vaping, product sources reported to CDC as of January 7, 2020. Findings strengthen the association between EVALI and the use of THC-containing e-cigarette, or vaping, products obtained from informal sources., Update: Interim Guidance for Health Care Professionals Evaluating and Caring for Patients with Suspected E-cigarette, or Vaping, Product Use–Associated Lung Injury and for Reducing the Risk for Rehospitalization and Death Following Hospital Discharge — United States, December 2019This guidance document provides updates to prior interim guidance for U.S. healthcare providers evaluating and caring for patients with suspected EVALI, with particular considerations for discharge planning and optimized follow-up and case management after discharge., Characteristics of Patients Experiencing Rehospitalization or Death After Hospital Discharge in a Nationwide Outbreak of E-cigarette, or Vaping, Product Use–Associated Lung Injury Lung Injury — United States, 2019This is the first report that analyzes factors that may increase risk for rehospitalization and death among EVALI patients following hospital discharge. These findings helped inform updates to clinical guidance for healthcare professionals., Vitamin E Acetate in Bronchoalveolar-Lavage Fluid Associated with EVALIexternal iconThis study analyzed bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid samples from EVALI cases and a comparison group of healthy people, demonstrating that vitamin E acetate is closely associated with EVALI., Syndromic Surveillance for E-Cigarette, or Vaping, Product Use–Associated Lung Injuryexternal iconThis report analyzed syndromic data on emergency department visits associated with possible EVALI. Data suggest that the EVALI outbreak began in June 2019 and cases have been declining since a peak in September., Update: Demographic, Product, and Substance-Use Characteristics of Hospitalized Patients in a Nationwide Outbreak of E-cigarette, or Vaping, Product Use–Associated Lung Injuries — United States, December 2019This is the first report that analyzes national data on use of THC-containing product brands by patients with e-cigarette, or vaping, product use-associated lung injury (EVALI)., Characteristics of E-cigarette, or Vaping, Products Used by Patients with Associated Lung Injury and Products Seized by Law Enforcement — Minnesota, 2018 and 2019This is the first report presenting chemical analytic results on products obtained from EVALI patients and on products intended for the illicit market both before and during the outbreak. These data further support a potential role for vitamin E acetate in the EVALI outbreak., Update: Interim Guidance for Health Care Providers for Managing Patients with Suspected E-cigarette, or Vaping, Product Use-Associated Lung Injury — United States, November 2019This guidance document provides updates to prior interim recommendations for U.S. healthcare providers evaluating and managing patients with suspected or known lung injury associated with e-cigarette, or vaping, product use, with particular considerations for outpatient management and for influenza season., If you have questions about CDC’s investigation into the lung injuries associated with use of electronic cigarette, or vaping, products, contact CDC-INFO or call 1-800-232-4636., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'e6e0f006fc78b2bdf02e013e65f5e9bc2935173c7b84e93a5f1be8ce4f5db6e0', 'headline': 'Heated Tobacco Products | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 12, 17, 9, 35, 52, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/heated-tobacco-products/index.html', 'main_text': 'Heated tobacco products heat processed tobacco leaf, allowing users to inhale nicotine into their lungs. Some brands of heated tobacco products permitted for sale in the United States include IQOS and Eclipse., More research is needed to understand the short- and long-term health effects of heated tobacco products., The use of any type of tobacco product—including heated tobacco products—is harmful, especially for youth, young adults, and pregnant women, as well as adults who do not currently use tobacco products., Heated tobacco products have not been scientifically shown to help smokers quit., If you’ve never used tobacco products, including heated tobacco products, don’t start., , ,  , chevron circle right solid iconThe emissions created from heated tobacco products generally contain lower levels of harmful ingredients than the smoke from regular cigarettes. However, that does not mean heated tobacco products are safe., chevron circle right solid iconResearch suggests that heated tobacco products contain many of the same harmful ingredients as regular cigarettes, as well as other harmful ingredients not present in regular cigarettes., chevron circle right solid iconAdditional research is needed to determine whether adult cigarette smokers who completely switch to heated tobacco products might reduce their risks of tobacco-related disease., chevron circle right solid iconAs of July 7, 2020, the FDA has authorized only one heated tobacco product system (IQOS and three of its tobacco-containing Heatstick products) to be marketed as modified risk tobacco products. These are the first tobacco products to receive “exposure modification” orders. These specific products may be marketed with claims that fully switching from regular cigarettes to IQOS can reduce a person’s exposure to harmful chemicals., Similar claims may not be made about other heated tobacco products. In addition, the manufacturer of IQOS may not claim that using IQOS reduces the risk of disease, that the products are endorsed or approved by the FDA, or that the FDA deems the products to be safe for use by consumers.3,4, To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'fefb225765e15aa8cd805c6cbc66af4cc2961501479127821072eb03b3fe3c00', 'headline': 'Tobacco Products | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 10, 16, 12, 38, 17, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/tobacco_industry/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Find Fact Sheets on tobacco products (Cigars, Bidis, Low-Yield Cigarettes, and Cigarette-Like Products), including the health effects, marketing, and use of Smokeless Products in the US, and information on Tobacco Brand Preferences and Tobacco Industry Marketing., For information on the regulation of tobacco products, see FDA’s Tobacco Products Websiteexternal icon.,  , ,  , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '328b37ed45ed0b2bb5b603e67200441d10af3ed8eaa093043f33e88355f0221e', 'headline': 'Menthol and Cigarettes | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 11, 20, 6, 50, 45, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/tobacco_industry/menthol-cigarettes/index.html', 'main_text': 'Tobacco companies add menthol to make cigarettes seem less harsh and more appealing to new smokers and young people., Menthol cigarettes are not less harmful. They are just as dangerous as non-menthol cigarettes., Different groups of people—like some racial/ethnic minorities, LGBT people, people with mental health conditions, etc.—are more likely to smoke menthol cigarettes than the rest of the population. This is particularly true for African Americans., Some studies show that people who smoke menthol cigarettes have a harder time quitting smoking than those who smoke non-menthol cigarettes., We can help reduce menthol cigarette smoking and help people who smoke menthol cigarettes to quit with policies that limit where menthol cigarettes are sold and marketed, and by reaching out to groups that are more likely to smoke menthol cigarettes., Menthol is a chemical compound found naturally in peppermint and other similar plants. Menthol can also be produced in a lab. Even though many brands of cigarettes are marketed as “menthol cigarettes,” almost all cigarettes sold in the U.S. contain at least some natural or lab-created menthol.1 Usually, there is more menthol in cigarettes marketed as “menthol” than in other cigarettes. According to federal law, tobacco manufacturers cannot market cigarettes with characterizing flavors (i.e. that have a distinct taste), except for cigarettes that taste like menthol or tobacco.2, Menthol in cigarettes creates a cooling sensation in the throat and airways when the user inhales, making cigarette smoke feel less harsh on the user.1,3 Tobacco companies market menthol cigarettes as “smoother” than other cigarettes.3 However, menthol cigarettes are not less harmful than other cigarettes and they are likely a greater risk to public health than non-menthol cigarettes.3, Smoking any kind of cigarette, including menthol cigarettes, is harmful and increases risk for serious illness and death. Studies have shown that menthol in cigarettes likely leads people—especially young people—to experiment with smoking. It also could increase a young person’s risk of becoming dependent on nicotine.1 Compared to adults who smoke non-menthol cigarettes, adults who smoke menthol cigarettes make more attempts to quit smoking and have a harder time quitting.1,4, Marketing messages imply that menthol cigarettes are a “healthier” alternative. This is not true; menthol cigarettes are just as dangerous as any other type of cigarette., Menthol cigarettes contribute to tobacco-related health disparities in the U.S.3,5 This is because some groups of people are more likely to start smoking menthol cigarettes and keep smoking because of menthol cigarettes, which puts them at higher risk of getting tobacco-related diseases. Even though fewer people are smoking any kind of cigarette now than in the past, the percentage of people who smoke menthol cigarettes is going down more slowly than the percentage of people who smoke non-menthol cigarettes.1,4, Young people and African Americans are more likely to smoke menthol cigarettes than other groups.1,3, These groups likely have higher percentages of menthol cigarette smoking in part because the tobacco industry has aggressively marketed menthol products to young people and African Americans, especially in urban communities.3 From their research, tobacco manufacturers knew that young people preferred smaller amounts of menthol in their menthol cigarettes, while older people who smoke preferred more menthol. The tobacco companies purposely lowered the menthol in some of their brands to make young people who smoke and those just starting to smoke want to use them.1, Tobacco companies also target menthol cigarette marketing to people who are new to smoking, mostly young people, using themes and images that appeal to these groups, like popularity, being accepted by people in their age group, and positive self-image. There also is heavy marketing by tobacco companies in African American neighborhoods, magazines that are popular with African Americans, and at music and lifestyle events aimed at African Americans.1,5, Menthol cigarette smoking also affects other groups of people. For instance, women who smoke are more likely to use menthol cigarettes than men who smoke.3,6 A 2009-2010 study showed LGBT people who smoke are more likely to smoke menthol cigarettes than heterosexual people who smoke, and that the difference was even greater in terms of LGBT women versus heterosexual women.10 People with low levels of income or education are more likely to smoke menthol cigarettes than other cigarettes.3 Adults who smoke and have mental health conditions also are more likely to use menthol cigarettes than those who do not have mental health conditions.11, While fewer people now smoke cigarettes than in years past, the percentage of people who smoke menthol cigarettes is going down more slowly than for non-menthol cigarettes.1,4 From 2008-2010 to 2012-2014, the percentage of adult smokers who currently smoke menthol cigarettes increased.6 Furthermore, from 2011-2015, menthol cigarette sales increased while overall cigarette sales decreased.12 As of 2018, sales of menthol cigarettes made up 36% of all cigarette sales in the U.S.—the highest proportion since major tobacco companies were required to report those data.13, To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '10a68da20d75420221653f8cda0a495d5c25abf9d58b18b4459542fd56e36357', 'headline': 'Tobacco Ingredient and Nicotine Reporting | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 3, 26, 5, 45, 26, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/tobacco_industry/reporting/index.htm', 'main_text': ' , Please note that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Office on Smoking and Health (OSH) is extending the March 31st deadline for submissions required under the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act and the Comprehensive Smokeless Tobacco Health Education Act for cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products. Though applicable Federal Register Notices provide that ingredient reports are due annually on March 31st, due to the current public health response to COVID-19 and related issues, OSH is not able to accept any ingredient submissions and will not be issuing Certificates of Compliance at this time. CDC will be communicating this information to state government entities. CDC will re-evaluate this approach as necessary., To the extent there are questions or concerns that CDC can address, please contact OSH through nccdoshfclaa@cdc.gov. For questions on implications regarding state-specific statutory or regulatory requirements, please contact the states directly., Further information will be provided concerning any updates, including amending the Federal Register Notices accordingly., The Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act (FCLAA), Public Law 89–92, and Comprehensive Smokeless Tobacco Health Education Act (CSTHEA), Public Law 99–252, require CDC‘s Office on Smoking and Health to collect, store, and analyze the list of ingredients added to cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products., The following pages provide relevant background information and guidance to manufacturers, packagers, and importers responsible for reporting ingredient and nicotine data. They are not exhaustive and are subject to change., 1Reporting of nicotine applies to smokeless tobacco only., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'e4a7e2c9d4ddee63cf3b698c2518a727214b9b65dfadccc87dff5216eca132e1', 'headline': 'Secondhand Smoke | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 2, 7, 39, 22, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/secondhand_smoke/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Exposure to secondhand smoke, even for a short time, can be harmful to both children and adults. Most people are exposed to secondhand smoke in their homes or the places they work. People may also be exposed to secondhand smoke in public places like bars, restaurants, and casinos, as well as in vehicles.1,2,3, Smokefree laws for all workplaces and public areas protect people who do not smoke. There are also steps you can take to protect yourself and your family from secondhand smoke, such as making your home and vehicles smokefree.2,3 These laws and policies are the only way to fully protect people who do not smoke from secondhand smoke exposure. They also can help people who smoke quit, and can help keep young people from starting to smoke.1,4,5, , , Anyone who is exposed to it, even for a short time. Secondhand smoke can cause health problems in children and adults, and can even be deadly.1,2,6 Since 1964, about 2,500,000 people who do not smoke have died from health problems caused by secondhand smoke exposure.1, Because more communities and states are adopting smokefree laws, the number of adults exposed to secondhand smoke in public places like worksites, bars, restaurants, and casinos has gone down.8 However, for many, especially children, exposure to secondhand smoke happens in places like homes and vehicles.9 You are especially likely to be exposed to secondhand smoke if you live in multi-unit housing—like apartment buildings with many homes next to one another in the same place.9,10, How Secondhand Smoke Harms Adults1,3,8, Even brief exposure to secondhand smoke can be harmful to your heart and blood vessels., How Secondhand Smoke Harms Children1,3,8, Homes are the main places where babies, children, and teens are exposed to secondhand smoke.1,9, To protect the children inside, houses and apartment buildings must be smokefree. Across the country, more and more multiunit housing complexes, such apartments and condominiums, are making indoor spaces smokefree. However, people who live in multiunit housing are not protected until all units and common areas are smokefree.1,9,11, You can help protect yourself, family, friends, and your community., Calling a quitline can connect you with a coach who can provide support, help you make a quit plan, and more., Protecting the people in your home also means not using other types of tobacco products, including e-cigarettes., Here are some printable hand-outs on protecting children from secondhand smoke for:, Children respect and learn from your actions and words. As caregivers, we teach our children by the choices we make. What we do now can change our children’s future., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'c6e4f1889c225560360fa4e915fb62c8d46ba0858b05e0aab18460424270a93e', 'headline': 'Going Smokefree Matters | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 6, 1, 49, 44, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/secondhand_smoke/going-smokefree-matters/index.html', 'main_text': 'Everyone deserves to breathe smokefree air where they live, work and play. In 2006 the Surgeon General concluded that there is no risk-free level of exposure to secondhand smoke.  Completely eliminating smoking indoors is the only way to protect nonsmokers from involuntary exposure to secondhand smoke. Separating smokers from nonsmokers, cleaning the air, and ventilating buildings cannot eliminate secondhand smoke exposure., Find information about the health dangers of secondhand smoke in single family and multiunit homes, bars and restaurants, and casinos., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '15dd7c20b99136282b4502f76bd341ceb4d86c7147363dc6be422279cae1d76f', 'headline': 'Youth Tobacco Prevention | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 12, 12, 3, 49, 7, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/youth/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Youth use of tobacco products in any form is unsafe, irrespective of whether it is smoked, smokeless, or electronic. If smoking continues at current rates, 5.6 million—or 1 out of every 13—of today’s children will ultimately die prematurely from a smoking-related illness., Find links to data, infographics, reports and other resources., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '2c9c9f55ba241d9495d0decab8ab225f9591583de1a53d750923fab8b50e9d19', 'headline': 'Related Resources | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 10, 8, 3, 19, 38, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/related_links/index.htm', 'main_text': ' , The information presented in this section contains links to clinician resources and information created and maintained by other public, private, and international organizations., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'f0f5e7b1871431c38a262b016a80a5985680323b03af5fc1082d9770e39df0f1', 'headline': 'Government Departments, Agencies, and Resources | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 12, 17, 8, 32, 48, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/related_links/govt_agencies/index.htm', 'main_text': 'To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'b7c6bf6e62db4d335fcec8bef6d9322e1b28b798c0fad9e983ae695571e28b30', 'headline': 'Other US Organizations | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 12, 11, 9, 1, 8, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/related_links/ngo_orgs/index.htm', 'main_text': 'To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '66dfc4813b53d7fd91ccfbba5d189ef01c9418c7a682896eaa77cd1d30bf5d0c', 'headline': 'International Organizations | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 1, 15, 4, 40, 8, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/basic_information/related_links/int_orgs/index.htm', 'main_text': 'To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'e86a8d27e88c9d70e5fd846e7123ae43ab3e042ed05efe7dd1e714b01ba4e8fe', 'headline': 'Tobacco-Related Disparities | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 15, 10, 35, 14, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/disparities/index.htm', 'main_text': "African American children are more likely to be exposed to secondhand smoke., , Although cigarette smoking has declined significantly since 1964, disparities in tobacco use remain across groups defined by race, ethnicity, educational level, and socioeconomic status and across regions of the country., [PDF–5.04 MB], The 1998 Surgeon General's Report is the first in the history of Surgeon General's studies on tobacco and health to focus on tobacco use among ethnic and racial minorities., , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:", 'reports': []}, {'id': '614cf00be6ec02bcec8ae1ed4063f62b2cec9b5fc601cb13d6a1f323d6c76774', 'headline': 'African Americans and Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 11, 19, 7, 31, 57, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/disparities/african-americans/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Black or African American is defined by the Office of Management and Budget as “a person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa.”1 There were over 40 million African Americans in the United States in 2016—approximately 13% of the U.S. population.2, Although African Americans usually smoke fewer cigarettes and start smoking cigarettes at an older age, they are more likely to die from smoking-related diseases than Whites.3,4,5,6,7,8, ,  , * “Tobacco Use” is defined as use either “every day” or “some days” of at least one tobacco product among individuals (For cigarettes, users were defined as persons who reported use either “every day” or “some days” at the time of survey and had smoked ≥100 cigarettes during their lifetime).† Data taken from the National Health Interview Survey, 2019, and refer to Black, non-Hispanic  adults aged 18 years and older.‡ Dashes indicate prevalence estimates with a relative standard error &gt; 30% and are not presented., Culturally appropriate anti-smoking health marketing strategies and mass media campaigns like CDC’s Tips From Former Smokers national tobacco education campaign, as well as CDC-recommended tobacco prevention and control programs and policies, can help reduce the burden of disease among the African American population., How We Can Protect Our Children from Secondhand Smoke, Critical Examination of Factors Related to the Smoking Trajectory among African American Youth and Young Adultsexternal icon, CDC’s Office on Smoking and Health sponsored a special supplement to the journal of Nicotine &amp; Tobacco Research titled Critical Examination of Factors Related to the Smoking Trajectory among African American Youth and Young Adults. The supplement focuses on disparities in tobacco use and tobacco-related health outcomes between African Americans and Whites. Research studies in the supplement highlight that African Americans have disproportionately higher rates of several smoking-related diseases even though African Americans start smoking later in life and smoke fewer cigarettes per day than Whites. Interventions to prevent smoking initiation and facilitate quitting among African Americans can help reduce disparities in this population. In addition, addressing other broader, systemic issues such as access to health care, screening and diagnostic services, and quality of care may help reduce disparities in morbidity and mortality from tobacco-attributable disease., Centers for Disease Control and PreventionNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionOffice on Smoking and HealthE-mail: tobaccoinfo@cdc.govPhone: 1-800-CDC-INFO, Media Inquiries: Contact CDC’s Office on Smoking and Health press line at 770-488-5493., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'c04d88dbdcaffeda140a6fabf8f49ef83e116dbcda7589cd979a4e293d7bf734', 'headline': 'American Indians/Alaska Natives and Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 12, 11, 8, 9, 3, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/disparities/american-indians/index.htm', 'main_text': 'American Indian/Alaska Native is defined by the Office of Management and Budget as “a person having origins in any of the original peoples of North and South America (including Central America), and who maintains tribal affiliation or community attachment.”1 There are approximately 2.6 million American Indians/Alaska Natives in the United States—about 1% of the total population.2, American Indians/Alaska Natives have the highest prevalence of cigarette smoking compared to all other racial/ethnic groups in the United States. Some American Indians use tobacco for ceremonial, religious, or medicinal purposes.3 For this reason, it is important to make the distinction between commercial and traditional tobacco use. When CDC references tobacco on this website, we are referring to commercial tobacco and not the sacred and traditional use of tobacco by some American Indian communities., Traditional tobacco is tobacco and/or other plant mixtures grown or harvested and used by American Indians and Alaska Natives for ceremonial or medicinal purposes., Traditional tobacco has been used by American Indian nations for centuries as a medicine with cultural and spiritual importance. Many Tribes maintain teachings and stories on the origin of tobacco. These teachings address tobacco in its purest form, today known as the tobacco plant Nicotiana rustica, and may include mixtures of other native plants., Traditional tobacco preparation and use varies across Tribes and regions, with Alaska Natives not commonly using traditional tobacco. These variances are due to the many different teachings among Tribes of North America. In some cultures, the roles of growing, harvesting, and preparing traditional tobacco are held by specific groups of people who use traditional ways to prepare tobacco for a specific use., Learn more about traditional tobacco at the Keep It Sacred websiteexternal icon.,  , * “Current Use” is defined as self-reported consumption of cigarettes, cigars, or smokeless tobacco in the past month.† Data taken from the National Survey on Drug Use and Health, 2016, and refer to American Indians/Alaska Natives aged 18 years and older., Culturally appropriate anti-smoking health marketing strategies and mass media campaigns like CDC’s Tips From Former Smokers national tobacco education campaign, as well as CDC-recommended tobacco prevention and control programs and policies, can help reduce the burden of disease among the American Indian/Alaska Native population., Because American Indian tribes are sovereign nations and have unique cultural practices and because data from national surveys may be limited or underestimated due to small sample sizes, CDC’s Office on Smoking and Health developed the American Indian Adult Tobacco Survey to assist tribes in collecting tribal- and village-specific commercial tobacco use and secondhand exposure data., American Indian Adult Tobacco Survey Implementation Manual [PDF–3 MB], How We Can Protect Our Children and Traditions from Secondhand Smoke, Centers for Disease Control and PreventionNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionOffice on Smoking and HealthE-mail: tobaccoinfo@cdc.govPhone: 1-800-CDC-INFO, Media Inquiries: Contact CDC’s Office on Smoking and Health press line at 770-488-5493., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '76be5cf7fc5b3baf2724cef6970f06d761f7a50f4f8add0681c793d5980e96fe', 'headline': 'Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, or Pacific Islanders and Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 10, 6, 2, 40, 34, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/disparities/asian-americans/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Asian American is defined by the Office of Management and Budget as “a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian subcontinent.”1 The six largest sub-groups of Asian Americans are from China, the Philippines, India, Korea, Vietnam, and Japan.2, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander is defined as “a person having origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands.”1, There were over 16.6 million Asian Americans in the United States in 2016—approximately 5.2% of the total U.S. population. Native Hawaiians or Other Pacific Islanders made up 0.2% of the population in 2016.3, Although Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (AA/NH/PI) are often combined together as one group in survey data due to smaller numbers of the individual groups surveyed, they are actually three distinct groups., Cigarette smoking among Asian American/Pacific Islander adults is lower than other racial ethnic groups.4 However, prevalence among Asian sub-groups varies and can be higher than that of the general population.5,  , By sub-groups, prevalence of cigarette smoking among Asian Americans varies considerably:5, * “Use” is defined as self-reported consumption of cigarettes, cigars, or smokeless tobacco in the past month.† Data taken from the National Survey on Drug Use and Health (NSDUH), 2016, and refer to Asian American adults aged 18 years and older.§ Data taken from NSDUH, 2010–2013, and include persons aged 18 years and older who reported smoking cigarettes during the past month.,  , Culturally appropriate anti-smoking health marketing strategies and mass media campaigns like CDC’s Tips From Former Smokers national tobacco education campaign, as well as CDC-recommended tobacco prevention and control programs and policies, can help reduce the burden of disease among the Asian American/Pacific Islander/Native Hawaiian population., The Asian Smokers’ Quitlineexternal icon offers free telephone counseling, self-help materials, nicotine patches, and online help in four Asian languages—Cantonese, Mandarin, Korean, and Vietnamese., American Cancer Society Guide to Quitting Smoking &#091;PDF&ndash;223 KB&#093;National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionOffice on Smoking and HealthE-mail: tobaccoinfo@cdc.govPhone: 1-800-CDC-INFO, Media Inquiries: Contact CDC’s Office on Smoking and Health press line at 770-488-5493., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '3d0ac8236ea77797fdc77fe4f833b6347bf5afe52ab9bee30dcebaf3a46b4fec', 'headline': 'Hispanics/Latinos and Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 12, 11, 7, 59, 11, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/disparities/hispanics-latinos/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Hispanic or Latino is defined by the Office of Management and Budget as “a person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race.”1, In the United States, there are more than 55 million people of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity.2 This group makes up approximately 17% of the current estimated population,2 and is expected to comprise nearly 30% of the U.S. population by the year 2060.3, Hispanic/Latino adults generally have lower prevalence of cigarette smoking and other tobacco use than other racial/ethnic groups, with the exception of Asian Americans.4,5 However, prevalence varies among sub-groups within the Hispanic population.6, Cigarette smoking prevalence varies by Hispanic/Latino sub-groups:6,  , * “Current Use” is defined as self-reported consumption of cigarettes, cigars, or smokeless tobacco in the past month.† Data taken from the National Survey on Drug Use and Health (NSDUH), 2016, and refer to Hispanic/Latino Americans aged 18 years and older.§ Prevalence data for Hispanic/Latino sub-groups taken from NSDUH, 2010–2013, and include persons aged 18 years and older who reported smoking cigarettes during the past month., During 2011–2012:, Culturally appropriate anti-smoking health marketing strategies and mass media campaigns like CDC’s Tips From Former Smokers national tobacco education campaign, as well as CDC-recommended tobacco prevention and control programs and policies, can help reduce the burden of disease among the Hispanic/Latino population., How We Can Protect Our Children from Secondhand Smoke, Cancer Facts &amp; Figures for Hispanics/Latinos 2012–2014 [PDF–5.09 MB], Disparities in Adult Cigarette Smoking—United States, 2002–2005 and 2010–2013, Although cigarette smoking has declined significantly since the release of the 1964 Surgeon General’s Report on Smoking and Health, disparities in tobacco use varies among racial/ethnic populations. Moreover, estimates of U.S. adult cigarette smoking and tobacco use are usually limited to aggregate racial or ethnic population categories (non-Hispanic Whites (Whites), non-Hispanic blacks or African Americans (blacks), American Indians and Alaska Natives (AI/ANs), Asians, Native Hawaiians or Pacific Islanders (NHPI), and Hispanics/Latinos; these estimates can mask differences in cigarette smoking prevalence among subgroups of these populations., Centers for Disease Control and PreventionNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionOffice on Smoking and HealthE-mail: tobaccoinfo@cdc.govPhone: 1-800-CDC-INFO, Media Inquiries: Contact CDC’s Office on Smoking and Health press line at 770-488-5493., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'e8368a152801f9e5983f175dcdc750d2cc75d40898becb14fbf11bad72282119', 'headline': 'Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Persons and Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 10, 6, 7, 11, 54, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/disparities/lgbt/index.htm', 'main_text': 'People who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT) include all races and ethnicities, ages, and socioeconomic groups, and come from all parts of the U.S. It is estimated that lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) persons make up approximately 3% of the total U.S. population.1, Cigarette smoking among LGB individuals in the U.S. is higher than among heterosexual/straight individuals. About 1 in 5 LGB adults smoke cigarettes compared with about 1 in 6 heterosexual/straight adults.2, * Data taken from the 2016 National Health Interview Survey and refer to adults aged 18 years and older.,  , Limited information exists on cigarette smoking prevalence among transgender people; however, cigarette smoking prevalence among transgender adults is reported to be higher than among the general population of adults.3, The transgender population is considered especially vulnerable because of high rates of substance abuse, depression, HIV infection, and social and employment discrimination, all of which are associated with higher smoking prevalence.4, Culturally appropriate anti-smoking health marketing strategies and mass media campaigns like CDC’s Tips From Former Smokers national tobacco education campaign, as well as CDC-recommended tobacco prevention and control programs and policies, can help reduce the burden of disease among the LGBT population., Smoking Out a Deadly Threat: Tobacco Use in the LGBT Community, Best Practices User Guide: Health Equity in Tobacco Prevention and Control [PDF – 5.04 MB], MPOWERED: Best and Promising Practices for LGBT Tobacco Prevention and Control [PDF–2.03 MB], Centers for Disease Control and PreventionNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionOffice on Smoking and HealthE-mail: tobaccoinfo@cdc.govPhone: 1-800-CDC-INFO, Media Inquiries: Contact CDC’s Office on Smoking and Health press line at 770-488-5493., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '6dc7335bd9ff1a42dccb88af8ba8440485a1b2698ea535f227f15648855fd414', 'headline': 'Cigarette Smoking and Tobacco Use Among People of Low Socioeconomic Status | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 3, 2, 3, 26, 30, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/disparities/low-ses/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Adults who have lower levels of educational attainment, who are unemployed, or who live at, near, or below the U.S. federal poverty level are considered to have low socioeconomic status (SES)., According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the poverty rate in 2016 was 12.7%.1 In 2017, the percentage of people aged 18 and older who had completed only high school was 28.9%, and the percentage who had completed high school up to grade 11 but had no diploma was 4.2%.2, In the U.S., people living below the poverty level and people having lower levels of educational attainment have higher rates of cigarette smoking than the general population.3,4,  , * “Current Use” is defined as self-reported consumption of cigarettes, cigars, or smokeless tobacco in the past 30 days (at the time of survey).† Data taken from the National Survey on Drug Use and Health, 2016, and refer to adults aged 18 years and older., Culturally appropriate anti-smoking health marketing strategies and mass media campaigns like CDC’s Tips From Former Smokers national tobacco education campaign, as well as CDC-recommended tobacco prevention and control programs and policies, can help reduce the burden of disease among people of low SES status., Best Practices User Guide: Health Equity in Tobacco Prevention and Control [PDF–5.05 MB], SelfMade Health Networkexternal iconexternal icon, Centers for Disease Control and PreventionNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionOffice on Smoking and HealthE-mail: tobaccoinfo@cdc.govPhone: 1-800-CDC-INFO, Media Inquiries: Contact CDC’s Office on Smoking and Health press line at 770-488-5493., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '82ebd7558352a1fe453cd681db36a315baa0c60d900dfd77f0f1b760b8a615d2', 'headline': 'Tobacco Use by Geographic Region ', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 2, 13, 3, 23, 12, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/disparities/geographic/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Tobacco use, including cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, and cigars, varies by geographic region within the United States. People living in certain regions and communities often suffer more from poor health because of tobacco use, especially cigarette smoking.1, By U.S. Census region, prevalence of cigarette smoking among U.S. adults is highest among people living in the Midwest (22.2%) and the South (22.7%), and lowest among those living in the Northeast (20.1%) and West (16.3%) regions.2 People in the Midwest and South also tend to use multiple types of tobacco products, such as cigarettes and smokeless tobacco.1, By county population types, prevalence of cigarette smoking among U.S. adults is highest among those living in rural areas (28.5%) and urban areas (25.1%), and lowest among those living in small metropolitan areas (22.0%) and large metropolitan areas (18.3%).2, The health of people living in rural areas is impacted by tobacco use more so than those in urban and metropolitan areas, often because of socioeconomic factors, culture, policies, and lack of proper healthcare.3 For more information about rural related health disparities visit: Advancing Tobacco Prevention and Control in Rural America pdf icon[PDF–3.76 MB]external icon., In general, rates of death attributable to smoking are lower in states with lower prevalence of smoking.1, The following charts show current tobacco use among U.S. adults aged 18 years and older by four major geographic regions—Midwest, South, Northeast, and West and by county population type—large metropolitan, smaller metropolitan, urban, and rural. Information within these charts was collected in the 2016 National Survey on Drug Use and Health and includes persons reporting cigarette, smokeless tobacco, and cigar use within the 30 days before the survey was taken.2,  , * Data taken from the National Survey on Drug Use and Health, 2016, and refer to persons aged 18 years and older reporting cigarette, smokeless tobacco, and cigar use in the past 30 days., † Regions are designated by the U.S. Census Bureau: Northeast (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Vermont); Midwest (Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, and Wisconsin); South (Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia); West (Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, New Mexico, Montana, Oregon, Nevada, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming)., § Large metropolitan—counties of 1 million or more population; Small metropolitan—counties with less than 250,000 population; Urban—non-metropolitan counties with 20,000 or more population in urbanized areas; Rural—non-metropolitan counties with fewer than 2,500 population in urbanized areas., In some states without statewide comprehensive smoke-free laws, substantial progress has been made in adopting comprehensive smoke-free laws at the local level.11, Strategies that restrict advertising, limit the number of retailers in neighborhoods, and prohibit price discounting can help reduce tobacco use and its negative health outcomes.14, Efforts to promote implementation of statewide and local comprehensive smoke-free laws are critical to protect nonsmokers from preventable health hazards in the places they live, work, and gather.11, Culturally appropriate anti-smoking health marketing strategies and mass media campaigns like CDC’s Tips From Former Smokers national tobacco education campaign, as well as CDC-recommended tobacco prevention and control programs and policies, can help reduce geographic disparities in tobacco use and exposure., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'c4ddc72eee779b6da25688b2bb94f7bd3579d19a7b66589be9d68ac15ca6ee0d', 'headline': 'Tobacco Use and Quitting Among Individuals With Behavioral Health Conditions | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 3, 23, 3, 23, 4, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/disparities/mental-illness-substance-use/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Adults with mental health or substance use disorders (i.e., behavioral health conditions), smoke cigarettes more than adults without these disorders.1,2,3 Mental disorders are conditions that affect a person’s thinking, feeling, mood or behavior, such as depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder, or schizophrenia. Substance use disorders occur when frequent or repeated use of alcohol, drugs, or both causes significant impairment, such as health problems, disability, and failure to meet major responsibilities at work, school, or home.4, Approximately 1 in 4 adults in the U.S. has some form of behavioral health condition, and these adults consume almost 40% of all cigarettes smoked by adults.3, [Information described below uses data from the National Survey on Drug Use and Health, with different specific definitions on mental illness and substance use disorder],  , Individuals who have mood disorders, psychoses, anxiety disorders, developmental disorders, and substance use disorders are more likely to be addicted to nicotine than those without these disorders. Nicotine dependence has proven to be particularly challenging for individuals suffering from psychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia.6 Smoking prevalence was highest among those with schizophrenia, at nearly 90%.6,  , *“Current Use” is defined as self-reported consumption of cigarettes, cigars, and smokeless tobacco in the past month (at the time of survey)., **Any Tobacco Products includes cigarettes, smokeless tobacco (i.e., snuff, dip, chewing tobacco, or “snus”), cigars, and pipe tobacco., †Data taken from the National Survey on Drug Use and Health, 2016, and refer to adults aged 18 years and older self-reporting any mental illness in the past year, excluding serious mental illness.,  ,  , ‡ Data taken from the National Survey on Drug Use and Health, 2016, and refer to persons aged 18 years and older reporting smoking, drug, and/or alcohol use in the past 30 days.§ Binge alcohol use in males is defined as drinking five or more drinks on the same occasion on at least 1 day in the past 30 days. Binge alcohol use in females is defined as drinking four or more drinks on an occasion.¶ Heavy alcohol use is defined as drinking five or more drinks on the same occasion on each of 5 or more days in the past 30 days; all heavy alcohol users are also binge alcohol users., The tobacco industry has used multiple strategies to market cigarettes to populations with behavioral health conditions. Some strategies, summarized in CDC’s Best Practices User Guide: Health Equity in Tobacco Prevention and Control pdf icon[PDF-5.05 MB]16, include the following:, Culturally appropriate anti-smoking health marketing strategies and mass media campaigns like CDC’s Tips From Former Smokers national tobacco education campaign, as well as CDC-recommended tobacco prevention and control programs and policies, can help reduce the burden of disease among people with mental illness., A number of policy strategies can be used in mental health and substance use disorder treatment facilities to encourage smoking cessation:, Best Practices User Guide: Health Equity in Tobacco Prevention and Control [PDF–5.05 MB], What We Know: Tobacco Use and Quitting Among Individuals With Behavioral Health Conditions [PDF – 937 KB], DIMENSIONS: Tobacco Free Toolkit for Healthcare Providers [PDF–1.7 MB], Enhance Your State’s Tobacco Cessation Efforts Among the Behavioral Health Population: A Behavioral Health Resource [PDF–0.99 MB], Focusing on People with Mental Illness, , Centers for Disease Control and PreventionNational Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health PromotionOffice on Smoking and HealthE-mail: tobaccoinfo@cdc.govPhone: 1-800-CDC-INFO, Media Inquiries: Contact CDC’s Office on Smoking and Health press line at 770-488-5493., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'a736ed05521b5b7a4dc29cd3459886f6ed7de01e8de6ed00fbc3c8c9d3a54d09', 'headline': 'Tobacco Use and Quitting Among Individuals With Behavioral Health Conditions | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 3, 25, 12, 8, 20, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/disparities/what-we-know/behavioral-health-conditions/index.html', 'main_text': 'Nearly 25% of adults in the United States have a mental health or substance use disorder (i.e., behavioral health condition), and these adults consume almost 40% of all cigarettes smoked by adults in the United States.11, People with behavioral health conditions die about five years earlier than people without such conditions, more than 50% from tobacco-attributable diseases.12, The first step in addressing tobacco use among individuals with behavioral health conditions is understanding the current available evidence., Behavioral health treatment settings have permitted tobacco use among clients, in part because of misperceptions that smoking could alleviate symptoms of mental health conditions and that cessation could interfere with treatment.1,2 However, research has shown that smoking can worsen symptoms and behavioral health outcomes, and quitting can improve mental health and substance use disorder treatment outcomes.1,2,9,10,13, Rebecca M. started smoking at age 16. At age 33, she was diagnosed with depression. As someone who smoked for many years, Rebecca turned to cigarettes to help her cope. When she tried to quit and couldn’t, she felt even more depressed and started smoking again. Rebecca talks about how quitting made her feel better – mentally and physically – in an ad from CDC’s Tips From Former Smokers® campaign., PRINT-ONLY PDF pdf icon[PDF–937 KB], To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'acbeca986a56d1222e9c1f37a598bd455b0e9d9812714ee15f4fdc234fc3ca3e', 'headline': 'Promising Policies And Practices To Address Tobacco Use By Persons With Mental And Substance Use Disorders | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 6, 7, 49, 3, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/disparities/promising-policies-and-practices/index.html', 'main_text': 'People with mental and substance use disorders:, New York Implements Tobacco-Free Campus Policies, Oklahoma Awards Grant Funds to Screen for Tobacco Use, Hawaii Trains Treatment Providers to Counsel Clients to Quit, Texas Provides Free NRT to Treatment Providers, New York’s and Oklahoma’s Medicaid Programs Pay for Medication, States Take More Steps to Quit Smoking for Behavioral Health Conditions, Download a printable PDF version of Promising Policies And Practices To Address Tobacco Use By Persons With Mental And Substance Use Disorderspdf icon[PDF – 1,068K]., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '565b5c6b64d34ae351d28b09689d149c79871275c0ab4b74fb0001aa4b07f598', 'headline': 'Data and Statistics | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 8, 25, 8, 34, 52, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/index.htm', 'main_text': 'EXPLORE DATA, Researchers, public health managers, and states can begin with fast facts., Tobacco use is the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the United States. Nearly 40 million U.S. adults still smoke cigarettes, and about 4.7 million middle and high school students use at least one tobacco product, including e-cigarettes. Every day, about 1,600 U.S. youth younger than 18 years smoke their first cigarette. Each year, nearly half a million Americans die prematurely of smoking or exposure to secondhand smoke. Another 16 million live with a serious illness caused by smoking. Each year, the United States spends nearly $170 billion on medical care to treat smoking-related disease in adults., Fast facts on smoking and tobacco use, as well as fact sheets by topic., National and international survey results, as well as survey guides and manuals., Surveillance and Evaluation resources for tobacco control programs., Youth, adult, and other data and statistical information by topic.,  An interactive application that presents current and historical state-level data on tobacco use prevention and control., Concise tobacco-related data published by the CDC., Brief introduction, highlights, and links to full text of tobacco-related MMWRs., Tobacco-related reports from Surgeon Generals, as well as related materials., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '8a959aae3811010d0c1fe3754f41f608f9a566746d6c89fd12fc0768e5e7ac4b', 'headline': 'Fast Facts and Fact Sheets | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 12, 14, 6, 31, 5, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/fact_sheets/index.htm', 'main_text': 'More Facts and References, , Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United States, Economic Trends in Tobacco, Health Effects of Cigarette Smoking, Secondhand Smoke (SHS) Facts, Smokeless Tobacco: Health Effects, Youth and Tobacco Use, Adult Data, Cessation, Economics, Health Effects, Secondhand Smoke, Smokeless Tobacco, Tobacco Products and Industry Marketing, Youth Tobacco Use, To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'dde566b3b349f8098ae6db8f33a217bec50b9fc0a94534fb82d9bafd51aec224', 'headline': 'Surveys | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 5, 7, 2, 42, 28, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/surveys/index.htm', 'main_text': ' , The Office on Smoking and Health conducts and supports national and international surveys on tobacco use, smoking cessation, secondhand smoke exposure, and other tobacco-related topics among youth, adults and specific populations., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '5c8f2042d2ddabba2a1042cd0eb13c2509e439e7d08f9d378e7785df52472b52', 'headline': 'National Youth Tobacco Survey (NYTS) | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 12, 21, 8, 39, 37, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/surveys/nyts/index.htm', 'main_text': '[, The National Youth Tobacco Survey (NYTS) datasets are available for public use, so that researchers and public health managers can explore the data in detail. In addition, states can compare their estimates of prevalence of youth tobacco use with national data., The NYTS was designed to provide national data on long-term, intermediate, and short-term indicators key to the design, implementation, and evaluation of comprehensive tobacco prevention and control programs. The NYTS also serves as a baseline for comparing progress toward meeting selected Healthy People 2030 goals for reducing tobacco use among youth:, Items measured as part of the NYTS survey include correlates of tobacco use such as demographics, minors’ access to tobacco, and exposure to secondhand smoke., The NYTS provides nationally representative data about middle and high school youth’s—, Data are available in SAS®, Microsoft Access®, and Microsoft Excel® formats, as well as PDFs of the questionnaire, codebook, and methodology report. If you do not have Microsoft Access®, you may download a free version of EPI Info to view the datasets., To extract the 1999, 2000, 2002, 2004, 2006, 2009, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020 files, you must have zip software. You may download a trial version of WinZip at http://www.winzip.com/external icon., Surveys Brochure \tTables of Surveys Brochure &#091;PDF&ndash;256 KB&#093;', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'acb2567e8b5a38253f2fba863325e10c799a216db7a5a708478e377962f9dfff', 'headline': 'National Adult Tobacco Survey (NATS) | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 2, 6, 19, 48, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/surveys/nats/index.htm', 'main_text': 'The National Adult Tobacco Survey (NATS) was created to assess the prevalence of tobacco use, as well as the factors promoting and impeding tobacco use among adults. NATS also establishes a comprehensive framework for evaluating both the national and state-specific tobacco control programs., NATS was designed as a stratified, national, landline, and cell phone survey of non-institutionalized adults aged 18 years and older residing in the 50 states or D.C. It was developed to yield data representative and comparable at both national and state levels. The sample design also aims to provide national estimates for subgroups defined by gender, age, and race/ethnicity., NATS is the first adult tobacco survey designed within the framework provided by the Office of Smoking and Health’s Key Outcome Indicators (KOI) report. The NATS questionnaire is built around KOI from each of the following four goal areas:, To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'f467c31d9bd6e321757c73dda7c540d75e9d62168c505d769b4b853fe60fc965', 'headline': 'Youth Tobacco Survey (YTS) | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 2, 6, 13, 39, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/surveys/yts/index.htm', 'main_text': 'YTS collects data from students in grades 6 through 12. Individual State Departments of Health plan and implement the survey with assistance from the CDC staff in OSH. The YTS is intended to enhance the capacity of state agencies and organizations to design, implement, and evaluate tobacco prevention and control programs for the purposes of preventing young people from using tobacco and helping current users quit., The YTS measures the following components:, The YTS Startup Package was developed in response to the continuous technical assistance being requested by states implementing the Youth Tobacco Survey (YTS). The documents are typically sent to states via email in a “zip” file. States receive the master file soon after they’ve contacted the Office on Smoking and Health (OSH) expressing an interest in conducting a YTS., To extract the YTS Data,  you must have zip software. Download a trial version of WinZip athttps://www.winzip.com/., The documents are arranged into the following five categories:, To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'da2338e8fad1b2df8157619da62d071028ea3a722ce022c51ae7237a160f49fa', 'headline': 'Alaska Native Adult Tobacco Survey Guidance Manual | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 23, 12, 42, 6, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/surveys/alaska_native/index.htm', 'main_text': 'AN ATSGuidance Manual, This manual is a guidance tool for health professionals who plan to implement the Alaska Native Adult Tobacco Survey (AN ATS) in Alaska Native villages and communities. The AN ATS manual contains methods and strategies that organizations will need to conduct a scientifically rigorous survey. It also includes step-by-step guidance on how to conduct the AN ATS, technical information, and resources., Download PDF–1 MBpdf icon, To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'eba00d7e0c39242066db780e48f41c9daf275f9c407d80ea90141bd42cb451fa', 'headline': 'American Indian Adult Tobacco Survey | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 5, 4, 9, 26, 31, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/surveys/american_indian/index.htm', 'main_text': 'The American Indian Adult Tobacco Survey (AI ATS) is a survey that was designed as a surveillance and evaluation tool that can be used by American Indian tribes, tribal organizations, other organizations, and National Tobacco Control Partners to provide tribal-specific information on commercial tobacco use, cessation efforts, exposure to secondhand smoke, workplace policies, tobacco-related knowledge and practices among American Indian adults aged 18 years or older. The documentation below can serve as guidance for American Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and other organizations that want to implement the AI ATS., [Print only PDF–315 KB], [Print only PDF–263 KB], American Indian Adult Tobacco Survey Implementation Manualpdf icon[PDF–3.3 MB]The AI ATS manual (last updated 2008) contains methods and strategies that organizations can use to conduct a scientifically rigorous survey. It also includes step-by- step guidance on how to conduct the AI ATS, technical information, resources, and the historical 2008 AI ATS questionnaire., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '7b107592e63edad304e788ec256cc5be723f69a9b2acf1e0f46ef32066e6250b', 'headline': 'Data Resources | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 6, 23, 6, 17, 42, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/data-resources/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Tobacco 21: Policy Evaluation For Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs, , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '091ad509e02afde6a47f4e329b085a3e2a1338ed0ed83f59038daf5e04773d86', 'headline': 'Information by Topic | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 23, 12, 33, 14, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/by_topic/index.htm', 'main_text': ' , Browse published data, highlights, and other information and resources by topic., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'fe8a8903fe791565f74942ff939671ba1d19f14077c0ebe6962ebb8a7eff9a61', 'headline': 'Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports (MMWR) | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 2, 11, 2, 34, 36, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/mmwrs/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Based on weekly reports to CDC from state public health departments, the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) is a series of scientific public health information and recommendations. MMWR readership consists mainly of medical and public health professionals, scientists, epidemiologists, and researchers.,  , Disclaimer: Data and findings provided in these MMWRs are for informational purposes only. More recent information may exist elsewhere on this site (for example, in fact sheets, or other materials that are reviewed on a regular basis and updated accordingly)., , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'a434dbf60b47f2d3368d8384671763dccfe5f34f6f1032c52e01e868b155576a', 'headline': 'Vital Signs | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 12, 22, 9, 47, 38, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/vital_signs/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Tobacco Use by Youth is Rising, E-cigarettes are the main reason, , To make CDC health information more accessible to the public, more interesting to the media, and more relevant to policymakers, CDC created Vital Signs—a monthly publication that uses concise and compelling data to communicate vital health information on select topics. The CDC Vital Signs for February 2019 reports youth tobacco product use increased during 2017-2018, erasing past progress in reducing youth tobacco product use driven by a surge in e-cigarette use.The Vital Signs report contains several products, including an MMWR Early Release, social media messages, and a web page containing a video, a podcast, and a fact sheet in English and Spanish., Tobacco product use among US youth is increasing. More than 1 in 4 high school students and about 1 in 14 middle school students in 2018 had used a tobacco product in the past 30 days. This was a considerable increase from 2017, which was driven by an increase in e-cigarette use. E-cigarette use increased from 11.7% to 20.8% among high school students and from 3.3% to 4.9% among middle school students from 2017 to 2018. No change was found in the use of other tobacco products, including cigarettes, during this time., Among youth:, To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '82d0cc1b54c943b27d3914c7c68833a92d539244a2181e5bed5f67a170a18d1b', 'headline': "Surgeon General's Reports on Smoking and Tobacco Use ", 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 1, 23, 12, 4, 5, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/sgr/index.htm', 'main_text': 'On January 11, 1964, Luther L. Terry, M.D., Surgeon General of the United States, released Smoking and Health: Report of the Advisory Committee of the Surgeon General of the Public Health Service. This was the first in the series that is now generally referred to as the Surgeon General’s reports. Smoking Cessation: A Report of the Surgeon General is the 34th tobacco-related Surgeon General’s report published since 1964. In 1990, the Surgeon General issued the first report that focused on the health benefits of smoking cessation. The 2020 report highlights the latest scientific evidence on the health benefits of quitting smoking, as well as proven treatments and strategies to help people successfully quit smoking., , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'c2dd1062dd7667322e278fe8f375f0215e9a8b8ea04905f46b4a72aed149b976', 'headline': 'Smoking Cessation: A Report of the Surgeon General ', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 12, 15, 8, 4, 12, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/sgr/2020-smoking-cessation/index.html', 'main_text': 'Quitting Smoking is Beneficial at Any Age, , , Smoking remains the leading cause of preventable disease, disability, and death in the U.S. Although the percentage of adults who smoke is at an all-time low in the U.S., 34 million adults still smoke and therefore continue to be at risk of developing smoking-related diseases., This report makes it clear that one of the most important actions people can take to improve their health is to quit smoking. This is true regardless of their age or how long they’ve been smoking., Quitting smoking can be difficult, but there are proven treatments and strategies to help people quit smoking successfully. The report outlines the latest research on these treatments including counseling (in-person and over the telephone with a quitline) and medications approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The report also sheds light on new and emerging opportunities to further promote and support cessation in our country., We know more about the science of quitting than ever before. Ultimately, the report serves as a call to action to our nation—we can and must do more to ensure that proven cessation treatments are reaching the people who need them., Provides an easy to read overview of the Surgeon General’s report and its findings. Also provides an overview of smoking cessation resources., Download (PDF–7.72 MB)pdf iconexternal icon, Descargar en español (PDF–7 MB)pdf icon, Order 2020 Surgeon General’s Report documents from our Publications Catalog. In the Publications Catalog, type in 2020 SGR in the search box., More videos..., , This infographic is useful for social media sharing and inclusion in other promotional activities like media kits, blog posts, newsletter articles/e-blasts, or presentations., , Download (PDF–278 KB)pdf iconexternal icon, This digital partner toolkit  is a one-stop shop for media and communications resources from the Surgeon General’s Report, with ideas for how you can use these materials to share report findings with the media and your stakeholders. The toolkit includes the HHS news release, fact sheets, videos, a Consumer Guide, and social media content, message, and images., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '4cc951a05473097d98b73b7d33edcdf2527a38eed4ce12b9d7469826bd3f147e', 'headline': "2016 Surgeon General's Report: E-Cigarette Use Among Youth and Young Adults | CDC", 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 12, 20, 5, 47, 16, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/sgr/e-cigarettes/index.htm', 'main_text': 'E-Cigarette Use Among Youth and Young Adults: A Report of the Surgeon General is the first report issued by a Federal agency that comprehensively reviews the public health issue of electronic cigarettes and their impact on our nation’s young people. It is the 33rd Report of the Surgeon General on tobacco., This summarizes the major content of the report, including overall and chapter specific conclusions, as well as a call to action.,  , This website is the primary source for information about the Surgeon General’s Report and its key findings. It includes information about the risks of e-cigarette use among young people for parents, teachers, coaches, health care providers, and others who influence youth and young adults.,  , PSA [YouTube video]: Any Volunteers? The Risk of E-cigarettes for Youth and Young Adults Science shows that nicotine can harm teens’ developing brains. Nicotine is a highly addictive drug, a common ingredient in most electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes). This video from the U.S. Surgeon General advises parents to “Know the Risks,” and highlights how e-cigarettes have the potential to cause lasting harm to the health of young users, especially their brain development, which continues until age 25.,  , Fact Sheet: This fact sheet pdf icon[PDF–114 KB] has been created for public health practitioners and others. It provides an overview of the key findings and messages from the report in an at-a-glance format.,  , Parent Tip Sheet: A tip sheet pdf icon[PDF–5.20 MB] for parents to help them talk to their teens about the potential health risks of e-cigarettes.,  , Health Care Provider Conversation Card: A resource pdf icon[PDF–3.28 MB] intended to help health care providers (e.g., physicians, pediatricians, nurses, etc.) talk to their young patients about the risks of e-cigarettes and share key facts from the latest Surgeon General’s Report.,  , Frequently Asked Questions: The most frequently asked questions pdf icon[PDF–303 KB] about the report findings, as well as the responses.,  , Use the banner below on your Web site, social networks, profiles, and blogs., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '476f8d7d5fc8e8bef638823166621267f2f93570213a26d8ceddea3b4eb1b90c', 'headline': "Historical Surgeon General's Reports | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC", 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 10, 15, 5, 59, 58, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/sgr/historical-reports/index.htm', 'main_text': 'For older reports, search CDC Stacks., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'd7a1c86f2a20c29c8b3041544c2cf66b63a5d0c05c1a4db152605c903dc6112a', 'headline': "History of the Surgeon General's Report on Smoking and Health | CDC", 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 12, 17, 2, 5, 12, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/sgr/history/index.htm', 'main_text': 'On January 11, 1964, Luther L. Terry, M.D., Surgeon General of the U.S. Public Health Service, released the first report of the Surgeon General’s Advisory Committee on Smoking and Health., On the basis of more than 7,000 articles relating to smoking and disease already available at that time in the biomedical literature, the Advisory Committee concluded that cigarette smoking is—, The release of the report was the first in a series of steps, still being taken more than 40 years later, to diminish the impact of tobacco use on the health of the American people., For several days, the report furnished newspaper headlines across the country and lead stories on television newscasts. Later it was ranked among the top news stories of 1964., During the more than 40 years that have elapsed since that report, individual citizens, private organizations, public agencies, and elected officials have pursued the Advisory Committee’s call for “appropriate remedial action.”, Early on, the U.S. Congress adopted the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act of 1965 and the Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act of 1969. These laws—, In September 1965, the Public Health Service established a small unit called the National Clearinghouse for Smoking and Health., Through the years, the Clearinghouse and its successor organization, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Office on Smoking and Health, have been responsible for 29 reports on the health consequences of smoking., In close cooperation with voluntary health organizations, the Public Health Service has—, Within this evolving social milieu, the population has given up smoking in increasing numbers. Nearly half of all living adults who ever smoked have quit., The antismoking campaign is a major public health success with few parallels in the history of public health. It is being accomplished despite the addictive nature of tobacco and the powerful economic forces promoting its use., However, more than 45 million American adults still smoke, more than 8 million are living with a serious illness caused by smoking, and about 438,000 Americans die prematurely each year as a result of tobacco use., Efforts to implement proven interventions must be continued and expanded., This material was compiled by the Office on Smoking and Health, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Updated December 2006., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'b3093077b7c7a5791dc6156827ba1f57f3b018d57ba3b49b090acbf99bd04b82', 'headline': 'State and Community Resources | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 28, 1, 41, 37, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/index.htm', 'main_text': 'EVIDENCE-BASED GUIDES FOR STATES, Resources and guidance documents to help inform effective tobacco prevention and control programs., , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'f44f41be954a5327404a108588c31537750fa2deb4ed42ba98aa79298b5068c7', 'headline': 'Tobacco Control Programs | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 8, 10, 11, 36, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/tobacco_control_programs/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Smoking harms nearly every organ of the body, causing many diseases and affecting the health of smokers in general. The Office on Smoking and Health (OSH) helps states and communities implement tobacco control programs by featuring national and local campaigns and events, linking to state and community resources, producing guidelines, and compiling data., CDC’s Office on Smoking and Health (OSH) created the National Tobacco Control Program (NTCP) in 1999 to encourage coordinated, national efforts to reduce tobacco-related diseases and deaths. The program provides funding and technical support to state and territorial health departments. NTCP funds., NTCP-funded programs are working to achieve the objectives outlined in OSH’s Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs., Collected feature articles on Smoking and Tobacco Use on Smoking and Tobacco Use topics. Features each year coincide with CDC initiatives, annual events like Back-to-School and New Year’s, and observances like World No Tobacco Day. Articles include stories from the award-winning Tips From Former Smokers® campaign as well as resources to help readers successfully quit smoking., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '8cdb85e4a921952b345e15949155a242d9f6d478c2fa2a15ca7fa190091230d0', 'headline': 'Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs—2014 | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 5, 5, 1, 27, 54, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/best_practices/index.htm', 'main_text': ', Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs—2014 is an evidence-based guide to help states build and maintain effective tobacco control programs to prevent and reduce tobacco use. This document updates Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs—2007. This updated edition describes an integrated approach to program development and provides recommended funding levels for effective state programs., , , , , , , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '1b971e3cac85e937cd144a948c19e04360b67620649359629d05f4f2096434c2', 'headline': 'Best Practices User Guide: Cessation | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 6, 18, 3, 39, 18, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/best-practices-cessation/index.html', 'main_text': ', This user guide focuses on how comprehensive tobacco control programs can promote cessation through population-wide efforts. According to Best Practices 2014, “encouraging and helping tobacco users to quit is the quickest approach to reducing tobacco-related disease, death, and healthcare costs.” Population-based interventions can dramatically increase access to proven cessation treatment and help more people quit for good. This guide offers program staff and partners information on how to promote health systems change, improve insurance coverage for cessation treatment, and support state quitlines., , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '968be9530b412d4c1483823c666e91bbd419ea98a1c07f201e332b6f57278212', 'headline': 'Best Practices User Guide: Health Communications | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 5, 5, 1, 46, 15, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/bp-health-communications/index.htm', 'main_text': ', This user guide focuses on how comprehensive tobacco control programs can deliver effective health communications. Best Practices for Comprehensive Tobacco Control Programs—2014 recommends mass-reach health communication interventions as powerful tools for preventing the initiation of tobacco use, promoting and facilitating cessation, and shaping social norms related to tobacco use. Health communications help achieve tobacco control goals by building support for policy and program efforts, countering the tobacco industry’s extensive advertising and promotion, and reaching large audiences to shift social norms around tobacco use. This guide offers program staff and partners information on how to effectively develop and implement paid media, earned media, social media, and other program communications to support tobacco control efforts., , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'd8660a4330b0cfc263265fec268e6fb13fccfb177560f83e7c69419c9e5bdbc5', 'headline': 'Best Practices User Guide: Health Equity | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 5, 5, 1, 34, 50, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/best-practices-health-equity/index.htm', 'main_text': ', This user guide focuses on how comprehensive tobacco control programs can work to achieve health equity in tobacco prevention and control. It offers tobacco control program staff and partners information on how to work toward achieving health equity when planning, implementing, and enforcing tobacco control policies., , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '81031a40bff2dbc55df791e668930b733f983cd3fa3f5d8b8a7b9fc1172c4507', 'headline': 'Best Practices User Guide: Program Infrastructure | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 5, 5, 1, 39, 6, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/best-practices-program-infrastructure/index.htm', 'main_text': ', This user guide focuses on the critical role of program infrastructure in achieving and sustaining tobacco prevention and control goals. According to Best Practices 2014, “program infrastructure is the foundation that supports program capacity, implementation, and sustainability.” In 2011, CDC developed the Component Model of Infrastructure (CMI), an evidence-based model that defines infrastructure in practical and actionable terms. The CMI includes five core components of program infrastructure: Responsive Plans and Planning, Multilevel Leadership, Networked Partnerships, Managed Resources, and Engaged Data. As programs are increasingly challenged to secure funding and support, building a strong infrastructure becomes even more important to sustain programs and achieve goals. This guide gives program staff and partners information on how to begin developing strong program infrastructure., , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '07ea23a62432f95fae5311a1360c443499a8d6dee0fd417b4e43f71a31624e8d', 'headline': 'Best Practices User Guide: Youth Engagement | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 5, 5, 1, 42, 26, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/best-practices-youth-engagement/index.html', 'main_text': ', The youth perspective is critical to tobacco prevention and control because most people start smoking cigarettes before age 18. The tobacco industry also continues to use advertising strategies that appeal to youth to recruit the next generation of smokers. Youth involvement can lead to important environmental and social norm changes and reduce pro-tobacco influences. This guide gives program managers information on how to engage youth as a part of a comprehensive tobacco control program., , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '7ef319b26496b99644c41851a323d45718ebc0116890c23eb8d5590163e159bb', 'headline': 'The Guide to Community Preventive Services | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 3, 31, 5, 50, 4, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/comguide/index.htm', 'main_text': ' , The Guide to Community Preventive Services (Community Guide)external icon is a resource to help you select interventions to improve health and prevent disease in your state, community, community organization, business, healthcare organization, or school. To promote tobacco use prevention and control, the Community Guide addresses the effectiveness of community-based interventions for four strategies—,  , Visit The Community Guide’s Tobacco pageexternal icon to find tobacco-related presentations and promotional materials, as well as a collection of evidence-based findings of The Community Preventive Services Task Forceexternal icon, an independent panel of public health and prevention experts., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '0c79223d941ff0a77b77951be27f33e0a6ea3d854ff8634e877e7f1532ba6091', 'headline': 'FDA Rules and Regulations | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 8, 4, 6, 49, 1, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/stateandcommunity/fda/index.htm', 'main_text': 'The FDA Center for Tobacco Products (CTP) is responsible for carrying out the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, which Congress passed in 2009. This law—commonly called the Tobacco Control Act—gives FDA broad authority to regulate the manufacturing, distribution, and marketing of tobacco products., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '648562c2670d54ea1693abed6ec054178fd516e14fe7c21eb98f8f0e0f7021a4', 'headline': 'Global Tobacco Control | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 1, 13, 8, 14, 57, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/global/index.htm', 'main_text': 'INTERACTIVE WORLD MAPS WITH GTSS SURVEY DATA, Tobacco use is a major preventable cause of premature death and disease worldwide. Currently, approximately 5.4 million people die each year due to tobacco-related illnesses—a figure expected to increase to more than 8 million a year by 2030. An efficient and systematic surveillance mechanism to monitor the epidemic is one of the essential components of a comprehensive tobacco control program. ––&gt;, CDC is the lead US federal agency for comprehensive tobacco prevention and control, and CDC’s Office on Smoking and Health develops, conducts, and supports strategic efforts to protect the public’s health from the harmful effects of tobacco use. CDC is a WHO Collaborating Center for Global Tobacco Surveillance and the technical agency for the Global Tobacco Surveillance System (GTSS).CDC’s global tobacco work is supported by the CDC Foundation through donations from the Bloomberg Initiative to Reduce Tobacco Use and The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The priorities of the Global Branch are to:, , The Global Tobacco Surveillance System Data (GTSSData) is a Web-based application that houses and displays data from four tobacco-related surveys conducted around the world., Surveys, report tables, graphs, and downloadable Microsoft Excel® file., Survey datasets in downloadable Microsoft Access®, SPSS®, SAS®, and STATA® files, Summaries of survey results by survey location and year, Links to survey reports by survey location and year, Published research related to the survey material, GTSS data are collected from four surveys., Buttons, Post a button on your Web site for quick access to GTSSData application., The GATS Atlas presents tobacco statistics from 22 GATS countries in a visual format—using data that cover nearly 60 percent of the world’s population.It serves as a resource for decision makers, public health professionals, advocates, researchers, and media as they work to advance social policies., ,  , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'fa00c2ce8c78fd8cbd46e414bbf262717a82292b3cb29d480827e5bcc0b4727f', 'headline': 'About GTSS | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 7, 18, 4, 32, 3, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/global/gtss/index.htm', 'main_text': 'The Global Tobacco Surveillance System (GTSS) aims to enhance country capacity to design, implement, and evaluate tobacco control interventions, and monitor key articles of the World Health Organization’s (WHO) Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) and components of the WHO MPOWER technical package., GTSS includes the collection of data through four surveys: the Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS); Global School Personnel Survey (GSPS); Global Health Professions Student Survey (GHPSS) and Global Adult Tobacco Survey (GATS). GYTS focuses on youth aged 13-15 and collects information in schools. GSPS surveys teachers and administrators from the same schools that participate in the GYTS. GHPSS focuses on 3rd year students pursuing degrees in dentistry, medicine, nursing and pharmacy. GATS is a nationally representative household survey that monitors tobacco use among adults aged 15 years and older., The Global Tobacco Surveillance System Data (GTSSData) is a Web-based application that houses and displays data from four tobacco-related surveys conducted around the world., GTSS includes over 20 tobacco data topics including, tobacco use, tobacco advertising, cessation, secondhand smoke, school policies, and perceptions of smoking behaviors., The World Health Organization (WHO), CDC, and the Canadian Public Health Association (CPHA) began development of the GTSS in 1999. CDC is the World Health Organization Collaborating Center for Global Tobacco Surveillance and the technical agency for the GTSS., View GTSS partners,  , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '6f8ff03366797cf2f57b54b1cd4c16de9bfd961a9046346e4ea43e7a8433c89d', 'headline': 'The GATS Atlas | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 10, 7, 2, 40, 17, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/global/gtss/tobacco_atlas/index.htm', 'main_text': 'This Atlas presents tobacco statistics from 22 GATS countries in a visual format—using data that cover nearly 60 per cent of the world’s population., Following the MPOWER framework, and incorporating the WHO FCTC Articles, it describes the range of tobacco products, and represents statistics on tobacco use, secondhand smoke exposure, cessation, warnings about the dangers of tobacco, bans on advertising, promotion and sponsorship, and tobacco taxes. Progress and opportunities for further actions in 22 GATS countries are also highlighted., The GATS Atlas serves as a resource for decision makers, public health professionals, advocates, researchers, and media as they work to advance social policies., Countries are encouraged to incorporate GATS questions in their own national surveys to obtain standardized and comparable statistics., Persons with disabilities experiencing problems accessing the GATS manuals and guidelines should contact tobaccoinfo@cdc.gov, or call 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636).,  , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'e564d60786a0994e63cba89cb36fe031312ecddf0f71fba07f86a7820b69b193', 'headline': 'Multimedia &amp; Tools | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 15, 8, 36, 10, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/multimedia/index.htm', 'main_text': 'SHARE AND PRINT TOBACCO-RELATED MATERIALS, Access selected tobacco counter-advertisements and printable and shareable media such as videos, podcasts, reports, and brochures. Also offered are free tobacco-related subscription services., Tools for finding, learning about, and ordering CDC-licensed tobacco counter-advertisements., Graphic visual representation of adult, cessation, economics, health effects, youth data and more., Links to a selection of shareable media, such as videos and buttons., Services offering free subscriptions to tobacco-related feeds, updates, and syndicated pages., Search for and order educational materials, publications, and other media singly or in bulk., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '3a5c456c0017d394932fa48326a83e625320a6132bc4b78eab32354eb3c662a3', 'headline': 'Infographics | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 12, 10, 5, 22, 29, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/infographics/index.htm', 'main_text': 'Infographics (Information Graphics) are visual representations of data, information or knowledge that tell a story through visual communication. Browse our smoking and tobacco-related gallery for topic specific and current Infographics and use them on your own websites, social media profiles, and blogs., , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '1e8e1aaaf4f736a68c4134a2b696d6d3502d6d4cc1850a1ec62fc4fbf694d88f', 'headline': 'Shareable Media | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 12, 11, 8, 34, 57, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/multimedia/shareable/index.htm', 'main_text': ' , Videos, infographics, and other shareable digital media are available to help you connect with your audiences by providing topic specific and current smoking and tobacco-related information for use across channels., Infographics (Information Graphics) are visual representations of data, information or knowledge that tell a story through visual communication. Browse our smoking and tobacco-related gallery for topic specific and current Infographics and use them on your own websites, social media profiles, and blogs.,  , To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '55de8425d1cb65fdf5fb75366118faebe282831c050d8c5cb2a7d258787c92ed', 'headline': 'Subscription Services | Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 12, 11, 8, 31, 9, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/multimedia/subscriptions/index.htm', 'main_text': ' , Keep up with the latest information from CDC on tobacco control and prevention with free subscriptions to RSS feeds, syndicated content, and email updates., Public health partners can choose which tobacco-related content to use on their sites and integrate tobacco-related content with localized content while keeping visitors on their sites.,  , Subscribe to a free email subscription service, which allows you to receive tobacco-related and other topic alerts by email when new information is available., To receive email updates about Smoking &amp; Tobacco Use, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': '75bab7c2c89e320af1137e38010c994682d2a11cd081ad566db010b9fb4fda72', 'headline': 'Measles Cases and Outbreaks | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 8, 2, 43, 50, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/measles/cases-outbreaks.html', 'main_text': 'CDC updates this page monthly., As of March 5, 2021, there have been no measles cases reported in the U.S., From January 1 to December 31, 2020, 13 individual cases of measles were confirmed in 8 jurisdictions.*, *Jurisdictions refer to any of the 50 states, New York City, and the District of Columbia., 2010-2020*(as of December 31, 2020), *Case count is preliminary and subject to change., Make sure you are vaccinated against measles before traveling internationally., In a given year, more measles cases can occur for any of the following reasons:, For specific information on measles cases in recent years please see the following reports:, Protect Families &amp; Communities with MMR Vaccine pdf icon[1 page, 508], To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'd2c8790c5e90c6d7c729746a22bbfdb1697afc248f26b5d86cf3df255d8205c1', 'headline': 'Travel: Check If You’re Protected Against Measles | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 11, 5, 1, 8, 5, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/measles/travel-vaccine-assessment/index.html', 'main_text': '', 'reports': []}, {'id': '40c80c07726f7fdf1d33105589302e815df915cf22169cda6a891fddf577bbdb', 'headline': 'Measles Symptoms and Complications | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 11, 5, 1, 3, 52, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/measles/symptoms/index.html', 'main_text': 'Measles is a highly contagious disease that can lead to serious complications. Symptoms usually begin 7-14 days after you’ve been infected.', 'reports': []}, {'id': '7820030edc0b63628ea2a713fd5ec632c3f6f6f474dbbdbc8a39637dd205cef1', 'headline': 'About Measles | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 11, 5, 1, 5, 49, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/measles/about/index.html', 'main_text': 'Measles is a highly contagious virus that can lead to complications. Learn about its history, answers to common questions, and, if you’re a parent, how you can protect your child.', 'reports': []}, {'id': '5fa5e078532652efb596b297038f989694d0ca95fbec3696fbacd40965fbb09a', 'headline': 'For Healthcare Professionals - Diagnosing and Treating Measles | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 11, 5, 1, 11, 49, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/measles/hcp/index.html', 'main_text': '[Measles is an acute viral respiratory illness. It is characterized by a prodrome of fever (as high as 105°F) and malaise, cough, coryza, and conjunctivitis', 'reports': []}, {'id': '6bd693d0ebffbf32606d2d6a4303e0fb0c32e9a387159b997f5f6b34c81183ba', 'headline': 'Interim Measles Infection Prevention Recommendations in Healthcare Settings | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 7, 23, 5, 2, 56, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/infectioncontrol/guidelines/measles/index.html', 'main_text': ' Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations for Measles in Healthcare Settings pdf icon[PDF – 12 pages], , Measles is most commonly acquired from persons in the household or community, but spread of measles can also occur in healthcare settings.[1], During 2001-2014, 6% of non-imported measles cases in the United States resulted from transmission in healthcare facilities. Fiebelkorn AP, Redd SB, Kuhar DT. Measles in Healthcare Facilities in the United States During the Postelimination Era, 2001-2014.external icon Clin Infect Dis. 2015 Aug 15;61(4):615-8., While the most important measure to prevent measles transmission in all settings is ensuring community immunization, core measles prevention in healthcare settings requires a multi-faceted approach including:, This interim guidance should be implemented in the context of a comprehensive infection prevention program to prevent transmission of all infectious agents among patients, HCP, and visitors., Definition of healthcare personnel (HCP): “HCP” includes all paid and unpaid persons working in healthcare settings who have the potential for exposure to patients and/or to infectious materials, including body substances, contaminated medical supplies and equipment, contaminated environmental surfaces, or contaminated air. HCP include but are not limited to, emergency medical service personnel, nurses, nursing assistants, physicians, technicians, therapists, phlebotomists, pharmacists, students and trainees, contractual staff not employed by the healthcare facility, and persons not directly involved in patient care, but who could be exposed to infectious agents that can be transmitted in the healthcare setting (e.g., clerical, dietary, environmental services, laundry, security, engineering and facilities management, administrative, billing, and volunteer personnel)., Definition of healthcare settings: “Healthcare settings” refers to places where healthcare is delivered and includes, but is not limited to, acute care facilities, long-term acute care facilities, inpatient rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes and assisted living facilities, home healthcare, vehicles where healthcare is delivered (e.g., mobile clinics), and outpatient facilities, such as dialysis centers, physician offices, and others., Definition of exposure to measles for HCP in healthcare settings: HCP exposures to measles in a healthcare setting include spending any time while unprotected (i.e., not wearing recommended respiratory protection):, * Measles has been reported to survive in air for up to 2 hours. For spaces with a defined rate of air changes per hour (ACH), see the following for additional considerations about estimating the time for 99.9% removal efficiency of airborne contaminants: Table B1 “Air changes/hour (ACH) and time required for airborne-contaminant removal by efficiency” from the 2003 Guidelines for Environmental Infection Control in Health-Care Facilities., , A. Before arrival to a healthcare setting, Instruct Emergency Services to notify the receiving facility/accepting physician in advance when transporting a patient with known or suspected measles, B. Upon arrival to a healthcare setting, A facemask is a term that applies collectively to items used to cover the nose and mouth and includes both procedure masks and surgical masks., For information on Standard and Airborne precautions, refer to the Guideline for Isolation Precautions:  Precautions to Prevent Transmission of Infectious Agents., A. Patient placement, For information on AIIR requirements, refer to the 2007 Guideline for Isolation Precautions: Preventing Transmission of Infectious Agents in Healthcare Settings – Glossary., B. Healthcare personnel , C. Transporting patients with known or suspected measles within and between healthcare facilities, D. Duration of airborne precautions, Severely immunocompromised patients include, but are not limited to, patients with severe primary immunodeficiency; patients who have received a bone marrow transplant until at least 12 months after finishing all immunosuppressive treatment, or longer in patients who have developed graft-versus-host disease; patients on treatment for acute lymphocytic leukemia within and until at least 6 months after completion of immunosuppressive chemotherapy; and patients with a diagnosis of AIDS or HIV-infected persons with severe immunosuppression defined as CD4 percent &lt;15% (all ages) or CD4 count &lt;200 lymphocytes/mm3 (aged &gt;5 years) and those who have not received MMR vaccine since receiving effective ART. Some experts include HIV-infected persons who lack recent confirmation of immunologic status or measles immunity. The treating physician for the exposed individual should be consulted to determine if the patient is immunocompromised., E. Manage visitor access and movement within the facility, F. Implement environmental infection control, Detailed information on environmental cleaning in healthcare settings can be found in CDC’s, A. Management of exposed healthcare personnel ,  B. Management of healthcare personnel infected with measles , C. Management of patients exposed to measles who do not have presumptive evidence of measles immunity, In the event of an outbreak or exposure involving large numbers of patients who require Airborne Precautions:, , In healthcare settings, persons potentially exposed to measles include patients, visitors, and HCP who are not wearing recommended respiratory protection (regardless of presumptive evidence of measles immunity status) who are:, Based on frequently asked questions to CDC and State and local health departments, the following additional considerations are provided for determining follow-up needs for measles exposures in healthcare settings:, , To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address: ', 'reports': []}, {'id': '631c56f63bf5f46de986ac7876dbd7387785ef184fc5ee67aa5d24b07b60e5e3', 'headline': 'Measles | Lab Tools | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 11, 5, 2, 27, 13, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/measles/lab-tools/index.html', 'main_text': 'Details for recommended samples for measles testing..., Describes measles serologic techniques, specimen handling, quality control, and interpretation of results..., Provides information on the WHO Lab Network as well as protocols for cell culture and the collection and handling of specimens for the isolation and identification of measles virus..., Describes the genetic characteristics of wild-type measles viruses and the application of molecular epidemiologic studies to track transmission of virus..., Lists the roles and responsibilities of the CDC Measles Virus Laboratory...', 'reports': []}, {'id': '70cbeb94fbca52d9ad707d224a46f6a8767beba4d59c95f950e63368f9dbe4cd', 'headline': 'Measles | Resources | Rubeola | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 11, 5, 1, 7, 25, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/measles/resources/index.html', 'main_text': 'Fact sheets, links to web pages, and additional educational resources..., Find scientific-based info, tailored to support healthcare providers and health departments., Video, print, and other digital materials about measles vaccination and outbreaks..., Infographics, images, a button and a banner to share on your web page or social media channel…, CDC feature story, podcast, and vaccine information, and links to other sources of measles information in Spanish...', 'reports': []}, {'id': '8f3f2cfc9e68ee8adcaf7f6fc46fdcd23435167b295ba6bc0aae378830f76eab', 'headline': 'Measles Outbreak Toolkits | Measles | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 11, 5, 1, 7, 46, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/measles/toolkit/index.html', 'main_text': ', CDC would like to support communities being affected by measles outbreaks by providing them with accurate, scientific-based information to counter misinformation. Click below to find resources designed for you:, Healthcare Providers, Local/State Health Departments, Measles and Camps', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'b8aa3a1ba4ab5bdaa89d7739dfed6f70e6139b130a7995358fa3648998078537', 'headline': 'Widespread outbreaks of hepatitis A across the U.S. | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 22, 2, 0, 5, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/hepatitis/outbreaks/2017March-HepatitisA.htm', 'main_text': 'When hearing about hepatitis A, many people think about contaminated food and water. However, in the United States, hepatitis A is more commonly spread from person to person. Since March 2017, CDC’s Division of Viral Hepatitis (DVH) has been assisting multiple state and local health departments with hepatitis A outbreaks, spread through person-to-person contact., The hepatitis A vaccine is the best way to prevent HAV infection , CDC has provided outbreak-specific considerations for hepatitis A vaccine administration and has updated its overall recommendations on the prevention of hepatitis A virus infection in the United States., Since the outbreaks were first identified in 2016, 35 states have publicly reported the following as of March 19, 2021, , The risk for person-to-person transmission of HAV continues during the COVID-19 pandemic. The hepatitis A vaccine is the best way to prevent HAV infection. People at risk for acquiring HAV infection or developing serious complications from HAV infection during the current hepatitis A outbreaks should be prioritized to receive the hepatitis A vaccine as soon as it is possible to do so safely., , , NR: not publicly reported, In response to all hepatitis outbreaks, CDC provides ongoing epidemiology and laboratory support as well as support on vaccine supply and vaccine policy development. When requested, CDC sends “disease detectives” to affected areas to evaluate and assist in an outbreak response. CDC alerts other public health jurisdictions of any increases in disease. All jurisdictions are encouraged to be watchful for increases in hepatitis A cases. CDC also works with state and local health officials to ensure hepatitis A vaccine is targeted to the correct at-risk populations and that supply is adequate., Postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) is recommended for unvaccinated people who have been exposed to hepatitis A virus (HAV) in the last 2 weeks; those with evidence of previous vaccination do not require PEP., PEP consists of:, PEP Recommendations:, NOTE: CDC recommends that all children be vaccinated against hepatitis A at age 1 year. Parents or caregivers who are unsure if a child has been vaccinated should consult the child’s health-care provider to confirm vaccination status., State health departments wanting to submit specimens must contact CDC at hepaoutbreaklab@cdc.gov for approval before shipping specimens to CDC.  Only specimens that that have tested positive for anti-hepatitis A IgM and meet any of the following criteria will be considered., Dear Colleague Letter pdf icon[PDF – 6 MB] from CDC Division of Viral Hepatitis Director regarding Submission of Patient Specimens to CDC for Hepatitis A Testing., CDC is developing educational materials to support the outbreak at the state and local levels. Most materials include an area where local information can be inserted. Your organization’s contact information can be typed into the blue colored rectangle. To upload your logo, click on the white space below the blue colored rectangle. In the pop-up box, select browse and upload a PDF version of your logo., Fact Sheets, For people who use drugs, Englishpdf iconSpanishpdf icon, For gay and bisexual men, Englishpdf iconSpanishpdf icon, For people experiencing unstable housing or homelessness, Englishpdf iconSpanishpdf icon, For people who are or were recently in jail or prison, Englishpdf iconSpanishpdf icon, Two page visual fact sheet, Englishpdf iconSpanishpdf icon, Pocket Cards, Outbreak hepatitis A Pocket Card – to localize with organization information and outlines who should get vaccinated and the symptoms of hepatitis AEnglishpdf icon  Spanishpdf icon, These cards should be printed double-sided on business card templates that print six double-sided cards per page. Settings must be set to “Actual size” or “Custom Scale 100%” to ensure accurate alignment., Englishpdf icon  Spanishpdf icon, These cards should be printed double-sided on business card templates that print six double-sided cards per page. Settings must be set to “Actual size” or “Custom Scale 100%” to ensure accurate alignment., If You’re Sick  Pocket Card – to localize with information on where to go for medical care and the symptoms of hepatitis A, Englishpdf icon  Spanishpdf icon, These cards should be printed double-sided on business card templates that print six double-sided cards per page. Settings must be set to “Actual size” or “Custom Scale 100%” to ensure accurate alignment., Posters, Poster for people who use drugs encouraging hepatitis A vaccination, Englishpdf iconSpanishpdf icon, Poster for people who use drugs encouraging hepatitis A vaccination, Englishpdf iconSpanishpdf icon, Poster for people who use drugs encouraging hepatitis A vaccination, Englishpdf iconSpanishpdf icon, Poster for people at high risk of infection encouraging hepatitis A vaccination, Englishpdf iconSpanishpdf icon, Poster for people experiencing homelessness encouraging hepatitis A vaccination, Englishpdf iconSpanishpdf icon, Poster for people experiencing homelessness encouraging hepatitis A vaccination, Englishpdf iconSpanishpdf icon, Poster for men who have sex with men (MSM) encouraging hepatitis A vaccination, Englishpdf icon, Poster for men who have sex with men (MSM) encouraging hepatitis A vaccination, Englishpdf icon, Poster for men who have sex with men (MSM) encouraging hepatitis A vaccination, Englishpdf icon, Poster outlining what Emergency Departments can do to help stop the hepatitis A outbreaks, Englishpdf icon, Posters on how to clean up and disinfect to help prevent spread of hepatitis A virus from Water Quality &amp; Health Council, WQHC websiteexternal icon, Digital Image , Information relating to the Hepatitis A Outbreak. To download the image, right-mouse-click on the link below and select the “save …” menu item to save the file to your own folder., 640 x 360 imageimage icon, If you are a state or local health department with questions about outbreak investigation, management, and/or specimens, please email DVH staff., If you are a practicing clinician with a concern about a potential case of hepatitis A virus infection, please contact your local or state health department., For all other inquiries, please contact CDC-INFO at 800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636), TTY: 888-232-6348 or Email CDC-INFO', 'reports': []}, {'id': '064c1906bc71f6fa11f483aed49b33dcfedfb9792a17940d83a5cedbc00f6b97', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Hepatitis A Linked to Fresh Blackberries | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 2, 10, 3, 44, 11, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/hepatitis/outbreaks/2019/hav-berries/index.htm', 'main_text': ', This outbreak investigation is over., CDC recommends that people who purchased fresh blackberries from any Fresh Thyme Farmers Market location (located in 11 Midwest states) or Woodman’s Market (located in Wisconsin and Illinois) during September 9-30, 2019 take the following actions:, , , Hepatitis A is a contagious liver infection caused by the hepatitis A virus. The hepatitis A virus is found in the stool and blood of people who are infected. The hepatitis A virus is spread when someone ingests the virus, usually through close personal contact with an infected person or from eating contaminated food or drink. Hepatitis A can be prevented with a vaccine, which is recommended for all children at age one and adults at risk., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)external icon investigated a multistate outbreak of hepatitis A associated with exposure to contaminated fresh blackberries sold at Fresh Thyme Farmers Market and Woodman’s grocery stores during September 2019., As of February 19, 2020, a total of 20 outbreak-associated cases of hepatitis A were reported from 7 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each is found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from October 8, 2019, to November 15, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from 14 to 73 years, with a median age of 50. Sixty percent of ill people were female. Of 19 people with available information, 11 (58%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., Epidemiologic and traceback evidence indicated that fresh blackberries were the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the 2 to 7 weeks before they became ill. Of people who were interviewed, 19/20 (95%) reported eating fresh blackberries; of 17 people with known fresh blackberry purchase location information, 16/17 (94%) purchased fresh blackberries from either Fresh Thyme Farmers Market or Woodman’s Market. This proportion was significantly higher than results from a survey pdf icon[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy people in which 7% reported eating fresh blackberries in the week before they were interviewed., FDA completed its traceback investigation; however, a single, common source of fresh, conventional blackberries could not be identified., As of February 19, 2020, this outbreak investigation is over.', 'reports': []}, {'id': '803826e9f61f7716c22f58d5f8eb69796e6054589b200c79a2ddf0c84806f2be', 'headline': 'Outbreak of Hepatitis A, Linked to Pomegranate Seeds | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 2, 10, 3, 28, 38, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://www.cdc.gov/hepatitis/outbreaks/2013/a1b-03-31/index.html', 'main_text': ', Posted October 28, 2013 4:30 PM ET, This particular outbreak appears to be over. However, Viral Hepatitis is still an important cause of human illness in the United States. More information about Viral Hepatitis, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the CDC Viral Hepatitis website., Read the Advice to Consumers », This outbreak investigation has been finalized., Click map to view case count map., Click graph to view epi curve graph.', 'reports': []}, {'id': '74b98253480591e8648135e89bbc3b45bc3619147ad22a0bb00400522915ad6d', 'headline': "COVID-19 in Equatorial Guinea - COVID-19 High - Level 3: COVID-19  High - Travel Health Notices | Travelers' Health | CDC", 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 22, 0, 0, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/notices/covid-3/coronavirus-equatorial-guinea', 'main_text': " Travel RequirementsAll air passengers coming to the United States, including U.S. citizens, are required to have a negative COVID-19 test result or documentation of recovery from COVID-19 before they board a flight to the United States. See the Frequently Asked Questions for more information.Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and bus or rail stations.Level 3: High Level of COVID-19 in Equatorial GuineaKey Information for Travelers to Equatorial GuineaTravel increases your chances of getting and spreading COVID-19. CDC recommends that you do not travel at this time.Travelers should avoid all nonessential travel to Equatorial Guinea.Travelers at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19 should avoid all travel to Equatorial Guinea.If you must travel:                        Before you travel, get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip.                                Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don't travel with someone who is sick.Follow all entry requirements for your destination and provide any required or requested health information.If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States.During travel, wear a mask, avoid crowds, stay at least 6 feet from people who are not traveling with you, wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer, and watch for symptoms.                                Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements.After you travel, get tested 3–5 days after travel AND stay home to self-quarantine for 7 days after travel. If you don't get tested, it's safest to stay home to self-quarantine for 10 days. COVID-19 Levels Level 4: Very High Level 3: High Level 2: Moderate Level 1: Low Level unknownLearn more about COVID-19 levels.See all COVID-19 travel notices.Travel and COVID-19Travel increases your chance of getting and spreading COVID-19. Stay home to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Airports, bus stations, train stations, and rest stops are all places travelers can be exposed to the virus. These are also places where it can be hard to social distance. If you travel, take steps before, during, and after travel to keep yourself and others from getting COVID-19.Before You TravelTalk to your doctor ahead of travel, especially if you are at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19.If you are eligible, get fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Wait 2 weeks after getting your second vaccine dose to travel—it takes time for your body to build protection after any vaccination.Get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip.Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don’t travel with someone who is sick.If traveling by air, check if your airline requires any health information, test results, or other documents. Check with your destination's Office of Foreign Affairs or Ministry of Health or the US Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Country Information page for details about entry requirements and restrictions for arriving travelers. Follow any entry requirements or restrictions at your destination which might include testing, quarantine, and providing contact information. If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States. If you test positive on arrival, you might be required to isolate. You might be prevented from returning to the United States as scheduled. If you get sick in Equatorial Guinea, you might need medical care. Plan ahead and learn more about Getting Health Care During Travel.During TravelIf you must travel, take the following steps to protect yourself and others from COVID-19:Wear a mask over your nose and mouth when in public settings. Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and stations.Avoid crowds and stay at least 6 feet/2 meters (about 2 arm lengths) from anyone who did not travel with you. It's important to do this everywhere—both indoors and outdoors.Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer (with at least 60% alcohol).Bring extra supplies, such as masks and hand sanitizer.Avoid contact with anyone who is sick.Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements.After You TravelYou may have been exposed to COVID-19 on your travels. You may feel well and not have any symptoms, but you can still spread the virus to others. You and your travel companions (including children) may pose a risk to your family, friends, and community  after your travel.Get Tested and Stay Home After TravelGet tested with a viral test 3–5 days after travel AND stay home to self-quarantine for a full 7 days after travel.        Even if you test negative, stay home to self-quarantine for the full 7 days.If your test is positive, isolate yourself to protect others from getting infected.If you don't get tested, it's safest to stay home for 10 days after travel.Avoid being around people who are at increased risk for severe illness for 14 days, whether you get tested or not.Follow state and local recommendations or requirements after travel. Also, take these actions after you return from travel to protect others from getting COVID-19:Avoid crowds and stay at least 6 feet/2 meters\u202f(about 2 arm lengths) from anyone who did not travel with you. It’s important to do this everywhere — both indoors and outdoors. Wear a\u202fmask\u202fover your nose and mouth when in public settings. Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and stations.If there are people in the household who did not travel with you,\u202fwear a mask\u202fand ask everyone in the household to wear masks in shared spaces inside your home for 14 days after travel. Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.Avoid being around people who are at increased risk for severe illness.Watch your health: Look for symptoms of COVID-19.See CDC's After You Travel page for more information.Other ConsiderationsIf you get sick with COVID-19 or test positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 while abroad, you might not be permitted to return to the United States until you can end isolation. If you are exposed to someone with COVID-19 during travel, you might be quarantined and not be permitted to return to the United States until your quarantine is lifted.Clinician InformationClinicians should obtain a detailed travel history for patients with symptoms of COVID-19 infection. If you suspect that a traveler has COVID-19, see Information for Healthcare Professionals about Coronavirus (COVID-19) for information on evaluating, reporting, clinical care guidance, and infection control.Additional InformationKnow When Not to Travel to Avoid Spreading COVID-19How CDC Determines the Level of a Destination’s COVID-19 Travel Health NoticeTravel During COVID-19Testing and International Air TravelCoronavirus Disease 2019Information for Healthcare ProfessionalsWHO, CoronavirusUS Department of State: Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) , All air passengers coming to the United States, including U.S. citizens, are required to have a negative COVID-19 test result or documentation of recovery from COVID-19 before they board a flight to the United States. See the Frequently Asked Questions for more information., Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and bus or rail stations.,  , Level 4: Very High,  , Level 3: High,  , Level 2: Moderate,  , Level 1: Low,  , Level unknown, Learn more about COVID-19 levels., See all COVID-19 travel notices., Travel increases your chance of getting and spreading COVID-19. Stay home to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Airports, bus stations, train stations, and rest stops are all places travelers can be exposed to the virus. These are also places where it can be hard to social distance. If you travel, take steps before, during, and after travel to keep yourself and others from getting COVID-19., , Talk to your doctor ahead of travel, especially if you are at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19., If you are eligible, get fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Wait 2 weeks after getting your second vaccine dose to travel—it takes time for your body to build protection after any vaccination., Get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip., Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don’t travel with someone who is sick., If traveling by air, check if your airline requires any health information, test results, or other documents. Check with your destination's Office of Foreign Affairs or Ministry of Health or the US Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Country Information page for details about entry requirements and restrictions for arriving travelers. Follow any entry requirements or restrictions at your destination which might include testing, quarantine, and providing contact information. If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States. If you test positive on arrival, you might be required to isolate. You might be prevented from returning to the United States as scheduled. , If you get sick in Equatorial Guinea, you might need medical care. Plan ahead and learn more about Getting Health Care During Travel., , If you must travel, take the following steps to protect yourself and others from COVID-19:, , Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements., , You may have been exposed to COVID-19 on your travels. You may feel well and not have any symptoms, but you can still spread the virus to others. You and your travel companions (including children) may pose a risk to your family, friends, and community  after your travel., Get Tested and Stay Home After Travel, Follow state and local recommendations or requirements after travel. , Also, take these actions after you return from travel to protect others from getting COVID-19:, See CDC's After You Travel page for more information., If you get sick with COVID-19 or test positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 while abroad, you might not be permitted to return to the United States until you can end isolation. If you are exposed to someone with COVID-19 during travel, you might be quarantined and not be permitted to return to the United States until your quarantine is lifted., Clinicians should obtain a detailed travel history for patients with symptoms of COVID-19 infection. If you suspect that a traveler has COVID-19, see Information for Healthcare Professionals about Coronavirus (COVID-19) for information on evaluating, reporting, clinical care guidance, and infection control.,  ", 'reports': []}, {'id': 'f3e2a52421b8bf69f8e811cbea06d89629f9b948c6baa9bfb03240d4670003a6', 'headline': "COVID-19 in Rwanda - COVID-19 Moderate - Level 2: COVID-19 Moderate - Travel Health Notices | Travelers' Health | CDC", 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 22, 0, 0, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/notices/covid-2/coronavirus-rwanda', 'main_text': " Travel RequirementsAll air passengers coming to the United States, including U.S. citizens, are required to have a negative COVID-19 test result or documentation of recovery from COVID-19 before they board a flight to the United States. See the Frequently Asked Questions for more information.Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and bus or rail stations.Level 2: Moderate Level of COVID-19 in RwandaKey Information for Travelers to RwandaTravel increases your chances of getting and spreading COVID-19. CDC recommends that you do not travel at this time.Travelers at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19 should avoid all nonessential travel to Rwanda.If you must travel:                        Before you travel, get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip.                                Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don't travel with someone who is sick.Follow all entry requirements for your destination and provide any required or requested health information.If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States.During travel, wear a mask, avoid crowds, stay at least 6 feet from people who are not traveling with you, wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer, and watch for symptoms.                                Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements.After you travel, get tested 3–5 days after travel AND stay home to self-quarantine for 7 days after travel. If you don't get tested, it's safest to stay home to self-quarantine for 10 days. COVID-19 Levels Level 4: Very High Level 3: High Level 2: Moderate Level 1: Low Level unknownLearn more about COVID-19 levels.See all COVID-19 travel notices.Travel and COVID-19Travel increases your chance of getting and spreading COVID-19. Stay home to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Airports, bus stations, train stations, and rest stops are all places travelers can be exposed to the virus. These are also places where it can be hard to social distance. If you travel, take steps before, during, and after travel to keep yourself and others from getting COVID-19.Before You TravelTalk to your doctor ahead of travel, especially if you are at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19.If you are eligible, get fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Wait 2 weeks after getting your second vaccine dose to travel—it takes time for your body to build protection after any vaccination.Get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip.Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don’t travel with someone who is sick.If traveling by air, check if your airline requires any health information, test results, or other documents. Check with your destination's Office of Foreign Affairs or Ministry of Health or the US Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Country Information page for details about entry requirements and restrictions for arriving travelers. Follow any entry requirements or restrictions at your destination which might include testing, quarantine, and providing contact information. If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States. If you test positive on arrival, you might be required to isolate. You might be prevented from returning to the United States as scheduled. If you get sick in Rwanda, you might need medical care. Plan ahead and learn more about Getting Health Care During Travel.During TravelIf you must travel, take the following steps to protect yourself and others from COVID-19:Wear a mask over your nose and mouth when in public settings. Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and stations.Avoid crowds and stay at least 6 feet/2 meters (about 2 arm lengths) from anyone who did not travel with you. It's important to do this everywhere—both indoors and outdoors.Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer (with at least 60% alcohol).Bring extra supplies, such as masks and hand sanitizer.Avoid contact with anyone who is sick.Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements.After You TravelYou may have been exposed to COVID-19 on your travels. You may feel well and not have any symptoms, but you can still spread the virus to others. You and your travel companions (including children) may pose a risk to your family, friends, and community  after your travel.Get Tested and Stay Home After TravelGet tested with a viral test 3–5 days after travel AND stay home to self-quarantine for a full 7 days after travel.        Even if you test negative, stay home to self-quarantine for the full 7 days.If your test is positive, isolate yourself to protect others from getting infected.If you don't get tested, it's safest to stay home for 10 days after travel.Avoid being around people who are at increased risk for severe illness for 14 days, whether you get tested or not.Follow state and local recommendations or requirements after travel. Also, take these actions after you return from travel to protect others from getting COVID-19:Avoid crowds and stay at least 6 feet/2 meters\u202f(about 2 arm lengths) from anyone who did not travel with you. It’s important to do this everywhere — both indoors and outdoors. Wear a\u202fmask\u202fover your nose and mouth when in public settings. Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and stations.If there are people in the household who did not travel with you,\u202fwear a mask\u202fand ask everyone in the household to wear masks in shared spaces inside your home for 14 days after travel. Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.Avoid being around people who are at increased risk for severe illness.Watch your health: Look for symptoms of COVID-19.See CDC's After You Travel page for more information.Other ConsiderationsIf you get sick with COVID-19 or test positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 while abroad, you might not be permitted to return to the United States until you can end isolation. If you are exposed to someone with COVID-19 during travel, you might be quarantined and not be permitted to return to the United States until your quarantine is lifted.Clinician InformationClinicians should obtain a detailed travel history for patients with symptoms of COVID-19 infection. If you suspect that a traveler has COVID-19, see Information for Healthcare Professionals about Coronavirus (COVID-19) for information on evaluating, reporting, clinical care guidance, and infection control.Additional InformationKnow When Not to Travel to Avoid Spreading COVID-19How CDC Determines the Level of a Destination’s COVID-19 Travel Health NoticeTravel During COVID-19Testing and International Air TravelCoronavirus Disease 2019Information for Healthcare ProfessionalsWHO, CoronavirusUS Department of State: Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) , All air passengers coming to the United States, including U.S. citizens, are required to have a negative COVID-19 test result or documentation of recovery from COVID-19 before they board a flight to the United States. See the Frequently Asked Questions for more information., Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and bus or rail stations.,  , Level 4: Very High,  , Level 3: High,  , Level 2: Moderate,  , Level 1: Low,  , Level unknown, Learn more about COVID-19 levels., See all COVID-19 travel notices., Travel increases your chance of getting and spreading COVID-19. Stay home to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Airports, bus stations, train stations, and rest stops are all places travelers can be exposed to the virus. These are also places where it can be hard to social distance. If you travel, take steps before, during, and after travel to keep yourself and others from getting COVID-19., , Talk to your doctor ahead of travel, especially if you are at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19., If you are eligible, get fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Wait 2 weeks after getting your second vaccine dose to travel—it takes time for your body to build protection after any vaccination., Get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip., Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don’t travel with someone who is sick., If traveling by air, check if your airline requires any health information, test results, or other documents. Check with your destination's Office of Foreign Affairs or Ministry of Health or the US Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Country Information page for details about entry requirements and restrictions for arriving travelers. Follow any entry requirements or restrictions at your destination which might include testing, quarantine, and providing contact information. If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States. If you test positive on arrival, you might be required to isolate. You might be prevented from returning to the United States as scheduled. , If you get sick in Rwanda, you might need medical care. Plan ahead and learn more about Getting Health Care During Travel., , If you must travel, take the following steps to protect yourself and others from COVID-19:, , Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements., , You may have been exposed to COVID-19 on your travels. You may feel well and not have any symptoms, but you can still spread the virus to others. You and your travel companions (including children) may pose a risk to your family, friends, and community  after your travel., Get Tested and Stay Home After Travel, Follow state and local recommendations or requirements after travel. , Also, take these actions after you return from travel to protect others from getting COVID-19:, See CDC's After You Travel page for more information., If you get sick with COVID-19 or test positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 while abroad, you might not be permitted to return to the United States until you can end isolation. If you are exposed to someone with COVID-19 during travel, you might be quarantined and not be permitted to return to the United States until your quarantine is lifted., Clinicians should obtain a detailed travel history for patients with symptoms of COVID-19 infection. If you suspect that a traveler has COVID-19, see Information for Healthcare Professionals about Coronavirus (COVID-19) for information on evaluating, reporting, clinical care guidance, and infection control.,  ", 'reports': []}, {'id': '7d9f094bb7999583c6ef763df557f403fba22fa83d568f63005efd28b0d136b9', 'headline': "COVID-19 in Isle of Man - COVID-19 Very High - Level 4: COVID-19 Very High - Travel Health Notices | Travelers' Health | CDC", 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 22, 0, 0, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/notices/covid-4/coronavirus-isle-of-man', 'main_text': " Travel RequirementsAll air passengers coming to the United States, including U.S. citizens, are required to have a negative COVID-19 test result or documentation of recovery from COVID-19 before they board a flight to the United States. See the Frequently Asked Questions for more information.Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and bus or rail stations.Level 4: Very High Level of COVID-19 in Isle of ManKey Information for Travelers to Isle of ManTravel increases your chances of getting and spreading COVID-19. CDC recommends that you do not travel at this time.Travelers should avoid all travel to Isle of Man.If you must travel:                        Before you travel, get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip.                                Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don't travel with someone who is sick.Follow all entry requirements for your destination and provide any required or requested health information.If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States.During travel, wear a mask, avoid crowds, stay at least 6 feet from people who are not traveling with you, wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer, and watch for symptoms.                                Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements.After you travel, get tested 3–5 days after travel AND stay home to self-quarantine for 7 days after travel. If you don't get tested, it's safest to stay home to self-quarantine for 10 days. COVID-19 Levels Level 4: Very High Level 3: High Level 2: Moderate Level 1: Low Level unknownLearn more about COVID-19 levels.See all COVID-19 travel notices.Travel and COVID-19Travel increases your chance of getting and spreading COVID-19. Stay home to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Airports, bus stations, train stations, and rest stops are all places travelers can be exposed to the virus. These are also places where it can be hard to social distance. If you travel, take steps before, during, and after travel to keep yourself and others from getting COVID-19.Before You TravelTalk to your doctor ahead of travel, especially if you are at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19.If you are eligible, get fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Wait 2 weeks after getting your second vaccine dose to travel—it takes time for your body to build protection after any vaccination.Get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip.Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don’t travel with someone who is sick.If traveling by air, check if your airline requires any health information, test results, or other documents. Check with your destination's Office of Foreign Affairs or Ministry of Health or the US Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Country Information page for details about entry requirements and restrictions for arriving travelers. Follow any entry requirements or restrictions at your destination which might include testing, quarantine, and providing contact information. If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States. If you test positive on arrival, you might be required to isolate. You might be prevented from returning to the United States as scheduled. If you get sick in Isle of Man, you might need medical care. Plan ahead and learn more about Getting Health Care During Travel.During TravelIf you must travel, take the following steps to protect yourself and others from COVID-19:Wear a mask over your nose and mouth when in public settings. Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and stations.Avoid crowds and stay at least 6 feet/2 meters (about 2 arm lengths) from anyone who did not travel with you. It's important to do this everywhere—both indoors and outdoors.Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer (with at least 60% alcohol).Bring extra supplies, such as masks and hand sanitizer.Avoid contact with anyone who is sick.Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements.After You TravelYou may have been exposed to COVID-19 on your travels. You may feel well and not have any symptoms, but you can still spread the virus to others. You and your travel companions (including children) may pose a risk to your family, friends, and community  after your travel.Get Tested and Stay Home After TravelGet tested with a viral test 3–5 days after travel AND stay home to self-quarantine for a full 7 days after travel.        Even if you test negative, stay home to self-quarantine for the full 7 days.If your test is positive, isolate yourself to protect others from getting infected.If you don't get tested, it's safest to stay home for 10 days after travel.Avoid being around people who are at increased risk for severe illness for 14 days, whether you get tested or not.Follow state and local recommendations or requirements after travel. Also, take these actions after you return from travel to protect others from getting COVID-19:Avoid crowds and stay at least 6 feet/2 meters\u202f(about 2 arm lengths) from anyone who did not travel with you. It’s important to do this everywhere — both indoors and outdoors. Wear a\u202fmask\u202fover your nose and mouth when in public settings. Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and stations.If there are people in the household who did not travel with you,\u202fwear a mask\u202fand ask everyone in the household to wear masks in shared spaces inside your home for 14 days after travel. Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.Avoid being around people who are at increased risk for severe illness.Watch your health: Look for symptoms of COVID-19.See CDC's After You Travel page for more information.Other ConsiderationsIf you get sick with COVID-19 or test positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 while abroad, you might not be permitted to return to the United States until you can end isolation. If you are exposed to someone with COVID-19 during travel, you might be quarantined and not be permitted to return to the United States until your quarantine is lifted.Clinician InformationClinicians should obtain a detailed travel history for patients with symptoms of COVID-19 infection. If you suspect that a traveler has COVID-19, see Information for Healthcare Professionals about Coronavirus (COVID-19) for information on evaluating, reporting, clinical care guidance, and infection control.Additional InformationKnow When Not to Travel to Avoid Spreading COVID-19How CDC Determines the Level of a Destination’s COVID-19 Travel Health NoticeTravel During COVID-19Testing and International Air TravelCoronavirus Disease 2019Information for Healthcare ProfessionalsWHO, CoronavirusUS Department of State: Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) , All air passengers coming to the United States, including U.S. citizens, are required to have a negative COVID-19 test result or documentation of recovery from COVID-19 before they board a flight to the United States. See the Frequently Asked Questions for more information., Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and bus or rail stations.,  , Level 4: Very High,  , Level 3: High,  , Level 2: Moderate,  , Level 1: Low,  , Level unknown, Learn more about COVID-19 levels., See all COVID-19 travel notices., Travel increases your chance of getting and spreading COVID-19. Stay home to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Airports, bus stations, train stations, and rest stops are all places travelers can be exposed to the virus. These are also places where it can be hard to social distance. If you travel, take steps before, during, and after travel to keep yourself and others from getting COVID-19., , Talk to your doctor ahead of travel, especially if you are at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19., If you are eligible, get fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Wait 2 weeks after getting your second vaccine dose to travel—it takes time for your body to build protection after any vaccination., Get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip., Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don’t travel with someone who is sick., If traveling by air, check if your airline requires any health information, test results, or other documents. Check with your destination's Office of Foreign Affairs or Ministry of Health or the US Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Country Information page for details about entry requirements and restrictions for arriving travelers. Follow any entry requirements or restrictions at your destination which might include testing, quarantine, and providing contact information. If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States. If you test positive on arrival, you might be required to isolate. You might be prevented from returning to the United States as scheduled. , If you get sick in Isle of Man, you might need medical care. Plan ahead and learn more about Getting Health Care During Travel., , If you must travel, take the following steps to protect yourself and others from COVID-19:, , Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements., , You may have been exposed to COVID-19 on your travels. You may feel well and not have any symptoms, but you can still spread the virus to others. You and your travel companions (including children) may pose a risk to your family, friends, and community  after your travel., Get Tested and Stay Home After Travel, Follow state and local recommendations or requirements after travel. , Also, take these actions after you return from travel to protect others from getting COVID-19:, See CDC's After You Travel page for more information., If you get sick with COVID-19 or test positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 while abroad, you might not be permitted to return to the United States until you can end isolation. If you are exposed to someone with COVID-19 during travel, you might be quarantined and not be permitted to return to the United States until your quarantine is lifted., Clinicians should obtain a detailed travel history for patients with symptoms of COVID-19 infection. If you suspect that a traveler has COVID-19, see Information for Healthcare Professionals about Coronavirus (COVID-19) for information on evaluating, reporting, clinical care guidance, and infection control.,  ", 'reports': []}, {'id': 'c339d5a7abbde3194880b1bdd223cac40bf2575486a9a768780e6c5305ca710b', 'headline': "COVID-19 in the Northern Mariana Islands - COVID-19 Moderate - Level 2: COVID-19 Moderate - Travel Health Notices | Travelers' Health | CDC", 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 22, 0, 0, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/notices/covid-2/coronavirus-northern-mariana-islands', 'main_text': " Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and bus or rail stations.Level 2: Moderate Level of COVID-19 in the Northern Mariana IslandsKey Information for Travelers to the Northern Mariana IslandsTravel increases your chances of getting and spreading COVID-19. CDC recommends that you do not travel at this time.Travelers at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19 should avoid all nonessential travel to the Northern Mariana Islands.If you must travel:                        Before you travel, get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip.                                Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don't travel with someone who is sick.Follow all entry requirements for your destination and provide any required or requested health information.During travel, wear a mask, avoid crowds, stay at least 6 feet from people who are not traveling with you, wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer, and watch for symptoms.                                Before traveling back to the Northern Mariana Islands, it's recommended you get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before travel. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements.After you travel, get tested 3–5 days after travel AND stay home and self-quarantine for 7 days after travel. If you don't get tested, it's safest to stay home and self-quarantine for 10 days. COVID-19 Levels Level 4: Very High Level 3: High Level 2: Moderate Level 1: Low Level unknownLearn more about COVID-19 levels.See all COVID-19 travel notices.Travel and COVID-19Travel increases your chance of getting and spreading COVID-19. Stay home to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Airports, bus stations, train stations, and rest stops are all places travelers can be exposed to the virus. These are also places where it can be hard to social distance. If you travel, take steps before, during, and after travel to keep yourself and others from getting COVID-19.Before You TravelTalk to your doctor ahead of travel, especially if you are at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19.If you are eligible, get fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Wait 2 weeks after getting your second vaccine dose to travel—it takes time for your body to build protection after any vaccination.Get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip.Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don’t travel with someone who is sick.If traveling by air, check if your airline requires any health information, test results, or other documents. Check with your destination's territorial health department's website for details about entry requirements and restrictions for arriving travelers. If you test positive on arrival, you might be required to isolate. You might be prevented from returning as scheduled. If you get sick in the Northern Mariana Islands, you might need medical care. Plan ahead and learn more about Getting Health Care During Travel.During TravelIf you must travel, take the following steps to protect yourself and others from COVID-19:Wear a mask over your nose and mouth when in public settings. Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and stations.Avoid crowds and stay at least 6 feet/2 meters (about 2 arm lengths) from anyone who did not travel with you. It's important to do this everywhere—both indoors and outdoors.Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer (with at least 60% alcohol).Bring extra supplies, such as masks and hand sanitizer.Avoid contact with anyone who is sick.Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.Before traveling back from the Northern Mariana Islands, it's recommended you get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip. This test is not a federal requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements.After You TravelYou may have been exposed to COVID-19 on your travels. You may feel well and not have any symptoms, but you can still spread the virus to others. You and your travel companions (including children) may pose a risk to your family, friends, and community  after your travel.Get Tested and Stay Home After TravelGet tested with a viral test 3–5 days after travel AND stay home and self-quarantine for a full 7 days after travel.        Even if you test negative, stay home and self-quarantine for the full 7 days.If your test is positive, isolate yourself to protect others from getting infected.If you don't get tested, it's safest to stay home for 10 days after travel.Avoid being around people who are at increased risk for severe illness for 14 days, whether you get tested or not.Follow state and local recommendations or requirements after travel. Also, take these actions after you return from travel to protect others from getting COVID-19:Avoid crowds and stay at least 6 feet/2 meters\u202f(about 2 arm lengths) from anyone who did not travel with you. It’s important to do this everywhere — both indoors and outdoors. Wear a\u202fmask\u202fover your nose and mouth when in public settings. Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and stations.If there are people in the household who did not travel with you,\u202fwear a mask\u202fand ask everyone in the household to wear masks in shared spaces inside your home for 14 days after travel. Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.Avoid being around people who are at increased risk for severe illness.Watch your health: Look for symptoms of COVID-19.See CDC's After You Travel page for more information.Other ConsiderationsIf you get sick with COVID-19 or test positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 while traveling, you might not be permitted to travel until you can end isolation. If you are exposed to someone with COVID-19 during travel, you might be quarantined and not be permitted to travel until your quarantine is lifted.Clinician InformationClinicians should obtain a detailed travel history for patients with symptoms of COVID-19 infection. If you suspect that a traveler has COVID-19, see Information for Healthcare Professionals about Coronavirus (COVID-19) for information on evaluating, reporting, clinical care guidance, and infection control.Additional InformationKnow When Not to Travel to Avoid Spreading COVID-19How CDC Determines the Level of a Destination’s COVID-19 Travel Health NoticeTravel During COVID-19Testing and International Air TravelCoronavirus Disease 2019Information for Healthcare ProfessionalsWHO, CoronavirusUS Department of State: Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) , Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and bus or rail stations.,  , Level 4: Very High,  , Level 3: High,  , Level 2: Moderate,  , Level 1: Low,  , Level unknown, Learn more about COVID-19 levels., See all COVID-19 travel notices., Travel increases your chance of getting and spreading COVID-19. Stay home to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Airports, bus stations, train stations, and rest stops are all places travelers can be exposed to the virus. These are also places where it can be hard to social distance. If you travel, take steps before, during, and after travel to keep yourself and others from getting COVID-19., , Talk to your doctor ahead of travel, especially if you are at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19., If you are eligible, get fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Wait 2 weeks after getting your second vaccine dose to travel—it takes time for your body to build protection after any vaccination., Get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip., Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don’t travel with someone who is sick., If traveling by air, check if your airline requires any health information, test results, or other documents. Check with your destination's territorial health department's website for details about entry requirements and restrictions for arriving travelers. If you test positive on arrival, you might be required to isolate. You might be prevented from returning as scheduled. , If you get sick in the Northern Mariana Islands, you might need medical care. Plan ahead and learn more about Getting Health Care During Travel., , If you must travel, take the following steps to protect yourself and others from COVID-19:, , Before traveling back from the Northern Mariana Islands, it's recommended you get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip. This test is not a federal requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements., , You may have been exposed to COVID-19 on your travels. You may feel well and not have any symptoms, but you can still spread the virus to others. You and your travel companions (including children) may pose a risk to your family, friends, and community  after your travel., Get Tested and Stay Home After Travel, Follow state and local recommendations or requirements after travel. , Also, take these actions after you return from travel to protect others from getting COVID-19:, See CDC's After You Travel page for more information., If you get sick with COVID-19 or test positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 while traveling, you might not be permitted to travel until you can end isolation. If you are exposed to someone with COVID-19 during travel, you might be quarantined and not be permitted to travel until your quarantine is lifted., Clinicians should obtain a detailed travel history for patients with symptoms of COVID-19 infection. If you suspect that a traveler has COVID-19, see Information for Healthcare Professionals about Coronavirus (COVID-19) for information on evaluating, reporting, clinical care guidance, and infection control.,  ", 'reports': []}, {'id': 'aab01a914f18a69d47ffc5747bcf69d1c2ba8be4c99945424a6f1e6956bef004', 'headline': "COVID-19 in Uganda - COVID-19 Low - Level 1: COVID-19 Low - Travel Health Notices | Travelers' Health | CDC", 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 22, 0, 0, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/notices/covid-1/coronavirus-uganda', 'main_text': " Travel RequirementsAll air passengers coming to the United States, including U.S. citizens, are required to have a negative COVID-19 test result or documentation of recovery from COVID-19 before they board a flight to the United States. See the Frequently Asked Questions for more information.Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and bus or rail stations.Level 1: Low Level of COVID-19 in UgandaKey Information for Travelers to UgandaTravel increases your chances of getting and spreading COVID-19. CDC recommends that you do not travel at this time.If you must travel:                        Before you travel, get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip.                                Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don't travel with someone who is sick.Follow all entry requirements for your destination and provide any required or requested health information.If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States.During travel, wear a mask, avoid crowds, stay at least 6 feet from people who are not traveling with you, wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer, and watch for symptoms.                                Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements.After you travel, get tested 3–5 days after travel AND stay home to self-quarantine for 7 days after travel. If you don't get tested, it's safest to stay home to self-quarantine for 10 days. COVID-19 Levels Level 4: Very High Level 3: High Level 2: Moderate Level 1: Low Level unknownLearn more about COVID-19 levels.See all COVID-19 travel notices.Travel and COVID-19Travel increases your chance of getting and spreading COVID-19. Stay home to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Airports, bus stations, train stations, and rest stops are all places travelers can be exposed to the virus. These are also places where it can be hard to social distance. If you travel, take steps before, during, and after travel to keep yourself and others from getting COVID-19.Before You TravelTalk to your doctor ahead of travel, especially if you are at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19.If you are eligible, get fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Wait 2 weeks after getting your second vaccine dose to travel—it takes time for your body to build protection after any vaccination.Get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip.Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don’t travel with someone who is sick.If traveling by air, check if your airline requires any health information, test results, or other documents. Check with your destination's Office of Foreign Affairs or Ministry of Health or the US Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Country Information page for details about entry requirements and restrictions for arriving travelers. Follow any entry requirements or restrictions at your destination which might include testing, quarantine, and providing contact information. If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States. If you test positive on arrival, you might be required to isolate. You might be prevented from returning to the United States as scheduled. If you get sick in Uganda, you might need medical care. Plan ahead and learn more about Getting Health Care During Travel.During TravelIf you must travel, take the following steps to protect yourself and others from COVID-19:Wear a mask over your nose and mouth when in public settings. Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and stations.Avoid crowds and stay at least 6 feet/2 meters (about 2 arm lengths) from anyone who did not travel with you. It's important to do this everywhere—both indoors and outdoors.Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer (with at least 60% alcohol).Bring extra supplies, such as masks and hand sanitizer.Avoid contact with anyone who is sick.Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements.After You TravelYou may have been exposed to COVID-19 on your travels. You may feel well and not have any symptoms, but you can still spread the virus to others. You and your travel companions (including children) may pose a risk to your family, friends, and community  after your travel.Get Tested and Stay Home After TravelGet tested with a viral test 3–5 days after travel AND stay home to self-quarantine for a full 7 days after travel.        Even if you test negative, stay home to self-quarantine for the full 7 days.If your test is positive, isolate yourself to protect others from getting infected.If you don't get tested, it's safest to stay home for 10 days after travel.Avoid being around people who are at increased risk for severe illness for 14 days, whether you get tested or not.Follow state and local recommendations or requirements after travel. Also, take these actions after you return from travel to protect others from getting COVID-19:Avoid crowds and stay at least 6 feet/2 meters\u202f(about 2 arm lengths) from anyone who did not travel with you. It’s important to do this everywhere — both indoors and outdoors. Wear a\u202fmask\u202fover your nose and mouth when in public settings. Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and stations.If there are people in the household who did not travel with you,\u202fwear a mask\u202fand ask everyone in the household to wear masks in shared spaces inside your home for 14 days after travel. Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.Avoid being around people who are at increased risk for severe illness.Watch your health: Look for symptoms of COVID-19.See CDC's After You Travel page for more information.Other ConsiderationsIf you get sick with COVID-19 or test positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 while abroad, you might not be permitted to return to the United States until you can end isolation. If you are exposed to someone with COVID-19 during travel, you might be quarantined and not be permitted to return to the United States until your quarantine is lifted.Clinician InformationClinicians should obtain a detailed travel history for patients with symptoms of COVID-19 infection. If you suspect that a traveler has COVID-19, see Information for Healthcare Professionals about Coronavirus (COVID-19) for information on evaluating, reporting, clinical care guidance, and infection control.Additional InformationKnow When Not to Travel to Avoid Spreading COVID-19How CDC Determines the Level of a Destination’s COVID-19 Travel Health NoticeTravel During COVID-19Testing and International Air TravelCoronavirus Disease 2019Information for Healthcare ProfessionalsWHO, CoronavirusUS Department of State: Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) , All air passengers coming to the United States, including U.S. citizens, are required to have a negative COVID-19 test result or documentation of recovery from COVID-19 before they board a flight to the United States. See the Frequently Asked Questions for more information., Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and bus or rail stations.,  , Level 4: Very High,  , Level 3: High,  , Level 2: Moderate,  , Level 1: Low,  , Level unknown, Learn more about COVID-19 levels., See all COVID-19 travel notices., Travel increases your chance of getting and spreading COVID-19. Stay home to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Airports, bus stations, train stations, and rest stops are all places travelers can be exposed to the virus. These are also places where it can be hard to social distance. If you travel, take steps before, during, and after travel to keep yourself and others from getting COVID-19., , Talk to your doctor ahead of travel, especially if you are at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19., If you are eligible, get fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Wait 2 weeks after getting your second vaccine dose to travel—it takes time for your body to build protection after any vaccination., Get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip., Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don’t travel with someone who is sick., If traveling by air, check if your airline requires any health information, test results, or other documents. Check with your destination's Office of Foreign Affairs or Ministry of Health or the US Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Country Information page for details about entry requirements and restrictions for arriving travelers. Follow any entry requirements or restrictions at your destination which might include testing, quarantine, and providing contact information. If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States. If you test positive on arrival, you might be required to isolate. You might be prevented from returning to the United States as scheduled. , If you get sick in Uganda, you might need medical care. Plan ahead and learn more about Getting Health Care During Travel., , If you must travel, take the following steps to protect yourself and others from COVID-19:, , Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements., , You may have been exposed to COVID-19 on your travels. You may feel well and not have any symptoms, but you can still spread the virus to others. You and your travel companions (including children) may pose a risk to your family, friends, and community  after your travel., Get Tested and Stay Home After Travel, Follow state and local recommendations or requirements after travel. , Also, take these actions after you return from travel to protect others from getting COVID-19:, See CDC's After You Travel page for more information., If you get sick with COVID-19 or test positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 while abroad, you might not be permitted to return to the United States until you can end isolation. If you are exposed to someone with COVID-19 during travel, you might be quarantined and not be permitted to return to the United States until your quarantine is lifted., Clinicians should obtain a detailed travel history for patients with symptoms of COVID-19 infection. If you suspect that a traveler has COVID-19, see Information for Healthcare Professionals about Coronavirus (COVID-19) for information on evaluating, reporting, clinical care guidance, and infection control.,  ", 'reports': []}, {'id': '220b32392abc3e3df3f74f26c5ccd4ee2b6a1bb1eabb6321563dff0dda82986a', 'headline': "COVID-19 in Benin - COVID-19 Moderate - Level 2: COVID-19 Moderate - Travel Health Notices | Travelers' Health | CDC", 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 22, 0, 0, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/notices/covid-2/coronavirus-benin', 'main_text': " Travel RequirementsAll air passengers coming to the United States, including U.S. citizens, are required to have a negative COVID-19 test result or documentation of recovery from COVID-19 before they board a flight to the United States. See the Frequently Asked Questions for more information.Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and bus or rail stations.Level 2: Moderate Level of COVID-19 in BeninKey Information for Travelers to BeninTravel increases your chances of getting and spreading COVID-19. CDC recommends that you do not travel at this time.Travelers at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19 should avoid all nonessential travel to Benin.If you must travel:                        Before you travel, get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip.                                Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don't travel with someone who is sick.Follow all entry requirements for your destination and provide any required or requested health information.If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States.During travel, wear a mask, avoid crowds, stay at least 6 feet from people who are not traveling with you, wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer, and watch for symptoms.                                Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements.After you travel, get tested 3–5 days after travel AND stay home to self-quarantine for 7 days after travel. If you don't get tested, it's safest to stay home to self-quarantine for 10 days. COVID-19 Levels Level 4: Very High Level 3: High Level 2: Moderate Level 1: Low Level unknownLearn more about COVID-19 levels.See all COVID-19 travel notices.Travel and COVID-19Travel increases your chance of getting and spreading COVID-19. Stay home to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Airports, bus stations, train stations, and rest stops are all places travelers can be exposed to the virus. These are also places where it can be hard to social distance. If you travel, take steps before, during, and after travel to keep yourself and others from getting COVID-19.Before You TravelTalk to your doctor ahead of travel, especially if you are at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19.If you are eligible, get fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Wait 2 weeks after getting your second vaccine dose to travel—it takes time for your body to build protection after any vaccination.Get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip.Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don’t travel with someone who is sick.If traveling by air, check if your airline requires any health information, test results, or other documents. Check with your destination's Office of Foreign Affairs or Ministry of Health or the US Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Country Information page for details about entry requirements and restrictions for arriving travelers. Follow any entry requirements or restrictions at your destination which might include testing, quarantine, and providing contact information. If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States. If you test positive on arrival, you might be required to isolate. You might be prevented from returning to the United States as scheduled. If you get sick in Benin, you might need medical care. Plan ahead and learn more about Getting Health Care During Travel.During TravelIf you must travel, take the following steps to protect yourself and others from COVID-19:Wear a mask over your nose and mouth when in public settings. Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and stations.Avoid crowds and stay at least 6 feet/2 meters (about 2 arm lengths) from anyone who did not travel with you. It's important to do this everywhere—both indoors and outdoors.Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer (with at least 60% alcohol).Bring extra supplies, such as masks and hand sanitizer.Avoid contact with anyone who is sick.Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements.After You TravelYou may have been exposed to COVID-19 on your travels. You may feel well and not have any symptoms, but you can still spread the virus to others. You and your travel companions (including children) may pose a risk to your family, friends, and community  after your travel.Get Tested and Stay Home After TravelGet tested with a viral test 3–5 days after travel AND stay home to self-quarantine for a full 7 days after travel.        Even if you test negative, stay home to self-quarantine for the full 7 days.If your test is positive, isolate yourself to protect others from getting infected.If you don't get tested, it's safest to stay home for 10 days after travel.Avoid being around people who are at increased risk for severe illness for 14 days, whether you get tested or not.Follow state and local recommendations or requirements after travel. Also, take these actions after you return from travel to protect others from getting COVID-19:Avoid crowds and stay at least 6 feet/2 meters\u202f(about 2 arm lengths) from anyone who did not travel with you. It’s important to do this everywhere — both indoors and outdoors. Wear a\u202fmask\u202fover your nose and mouth when in public settings. Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and stations.If there are people in the household who did not travel with you,\u202fwear a mask\u202fand ask everyone in the household to wear masks in shared spaces inside your home for 14 days after travel. Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.Avoid being around people who are at increased risk for severe illness.Watch your health: Look for symptoms of COVID-19.See CDC's After You Travel page for more information.Other ConsiderationsIf you get sick with COVID-19 or test positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 while abroad, you might not be permitted to return to the United States until you can end isolation. If you are exposed to someone with COVID-19 during travel, you might be quarantined and not be permitted to return to the United States until your quarantine is lifted.Clinician InformationClinicians should obtain a detailed travel history for patients with symptoms of COVID-19 infection. If you suspect that a traveler has COVID-19, see Information for Healthcare Professionals about Coronavirus (COVID-19) for information on evaluating, reporting, clinical care guidance, and infection control.Additional InformationKnow When Not to Travel to Avoid Spreading COVID-19How CDC Determines the Level of a Destination’s COVID-19 Travel Health NoticeTravel During COVID-19Testing and International Air TravelCoronavirus Disease 2019Information for Healthcare ProfessionalsWHO, CoronavirusUS Department of State: Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) , All air passengers coming to the United States, including U.S. citizens, are required to have a negative COVID-19 test result or documentation of recovery from COVID-19 before they board a flight to the United States. See the Frequently Asked Questions for more information., Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and bus or rail stations.,  , Level 4: Very High,  , Level 3: High,  , Level 2: Moderate,  , Level 1: Low,  , Level unknown, Learn more about COVID-19 levels., See all COVID-19 travel notices., Travel increases your chance of getting and spreading COVID-19. Stay home to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Airports, bus stations, train stations, and rest stops are all places travelers can be exposed to the virus. These are also places where it can be hard to social distance. If you travel, take steps before, during, and after travel to keep yourself and others from getting COVID-19., , Talk to your doctor ahead of travel, especially if you are at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19., If you are eligible, get fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Wait 2 weeks after getting your second vaccine dose to travel—it takes time for your body to build protection after any vaccination., Get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip., Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don’t travel with someone who is sick., If traveling by air, check if your airline requires any health information, test results, or other documents. Check with your destination's Office of Foreign Affairs or Ministry of Health or the US Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Country Information page for details about entry requirements and restrictions for arriving travelers. Follow any entry requirements or restrictions at your destination which might include testing, quarantine, and providing contact information. If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States. If you test positive on arrival, you might be required to isolate. You might be prevented from returning to the United States as scheduled. , If you get sick in Benin, you might need medical care. Plan ahead and learn more about Getting Health Care During Travel., , If you must travel, take the following steps to protect yourself and others from COVID-19:, , Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements., , You may have been exposed to COVID-19 on your travels. You may feel well and not have any symptoms, but you can still spread the virus to others. You and your travel companions (including children) may pose a risk to your family, friends, and community  after your travel., Get Tested and Stay Home After Travel, Follow state and local recommendations or requirements after travel. , Also, take these actions after you return from travel to protect others from getting COVID-19:, See CDC's After You Travel page for more information., If you get sick with COVID-19 or test positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 while abroad, you might not be permitted to return to the United States until you can end isolation. If you are exposed to someone with COVID-19 during travel, you might be quarantined and not be permitted to return to the United States until your quarantine is lifted., Clinicians should obtain a detailed travel history for patients with symptoms of COVID-19 infection. If you suspect that a traveler has COVID-19, see Information for Healthcare Professionals about Coronavirus (COVID-19) for information on evaluating, reporting, clinical care guidance, and infection control.,  ", 'reports': []}, {'id': '225224f6a3c7603fdace03f6205cd35b7cb8aadfbde6fca5a5feebe10f214e95', 'headline': "COVID-19 in Sudan - COVID-19 High - Level 3: COVID-19  High - Travel Health Notices | Travelers' Health | CDC", 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 22, 0, 0, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/notices/covid-3/coronavirus-sudan', 'main_text': "All air passengers coming to the United States, including U.S. citizens, are required to have a negative COVID-19 test result or documentation of recovery from COVID-19 before they board a flight to the United States. See the Frequently Asked Questions for more information., Masks are required on planes, buses, trains, and other forms of public transportation traveling into, within, or out of the United States and in U.S. transportation hubs such as airports and bus or rail stations.,  , Level 4: Very High,  , Level 3: High,  , Level 2: Moderate,  , Level 1: Low,  , Level unknown, Learn more about COVID-19 levels., See all COVID-19 travel notices., Travel increases your chance of getting and spreading COVID-19. Stay home to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Airports, bus stations, train stations, and rest stops are all places travelers can be exposed to the virus. These are also places where it can be hard to social distance. If you travel, take steps before, during, and after travel to keep yourself and others from getting COVID-19., , Talk to your doctor ahead of travel, especially if you are at increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19., If you are eligible, get fully vaccinated for COVID-19. Wait 2 weeks after getting your second vaccine dose to travel—it takes time for your body to build protection after any vaccination., Get tested with a viral test 1–3 days before your trip., Do NOT travel if you were exposed to COVID-19, you are sick, or you test positive for COVID-19. Learn when it is safe for you to travel. Don’t travel with someone who is sick., If traveling by air, check if your airline requires any health information, test results, or other documents. Check with your destination's Office of Foreign Affairs or Ministry of Health or the US Department of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs, Country Information page for details about entry requirements and restrictions for arriving travelers. Follow any entry requirements or restrictions at your destination which might include testing, quarantine, and providing contact information. If you do not follow your destination's requirements, you may be denied entry and required to return to the United States. If you test positive on arrival, you might be required to isolate. You might be prevented from returning to the United States as scheduled. , If you get sick in Sudan, you might need medical care. Plan ahead and learn more about Getting Health Care During Travel., , If you must travel, take the following steps to protect yourself and others from COVID-19:, , Before traveling back to the United States by air, get tested with a viral test no more than 3 days before your flight departs. The test result must be negative. Keep a copy of your test results with you during travel in case you are asked for them. See Frequently Asked Questions for more information about this requirement. Follow all destination and airline recommendations or requirements., , You may have been exposed to COVID-19 on your travels. You may feel well and not have any symptoms, but you can still spread the virus to others. You and your travel companions (including children) may pose a risk to your family, friends, and community  after your travel., Get Tested and Stay Home After Travel, Follow state and local recommendations or requirements after travel. , Also, take these actions after you return from travel to protect others from getting COVID-19:, See CDC's After You Travel page for more information., If you get sick with COVID-19 or test positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 while abroad, you might not be permitted to return to the United States until you can end isolation. If you are exposed to someone with COVID-19 during travel, you might be quarantined and not be permitted to return to the United States until your quarantine is lifted., Clinicians should obtain a detailed travel history for patients with symptoms of COVID-19 infection. If you suspect that a traveler has COVID-19, see Information for Healthcare Professionals about Coronavirus (COVID-19) for information on evaluating, reporting, clinical care guidance, and infection control.,  ", 'reports': []}, {'id': '2d697059ceafc2bdfe61bc233e1d0f1e797b1bcaac1cb17984d8c6c92aa11fbc', 'headline': 'E. coli Outbreak with Unknown Food Source | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 3, 11, 4, 38, 4, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=416375', 'main_text': 'Posted March 11, 2021, This outbreak is over. Always follow the four steps to food safety: clean, separate, cook, chill., , Always follow these four food safety steps to prevent getting sick from E. coli:, Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '3e6d07919a7c0316ef78021011c68ffa1b7ead6a3f410288be5b2775ee4c3457', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Leafy Greens | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 1, 28, 12, 49, 51, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=415501', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted on December 22, 2020 at 4:00 PM ET, This outbreak is over. Investigators have linked this outbreak to leafy greens, but a specific type or brand was not identified. You do not need to avoid eating leafy greens because of this outbreak. Learn more about how leafy greens can get contaminated and steps you can take to reduce your risk of getting sick from eating leafy greens., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated several multistate outbreaks of E. coli O157:H7 infections. This outbreak is different from two other E. coli O157:H7 outbreaks that occurred at the same time (E. coli outbreak with unknown source 1 and E. coli outbreak with unknown source 3)., , , Vegetables, including leafy greens, are an important part of a healthy, balanced diet. However, they can sometimes be contaminated with harmful germs., The safest produce is cooked; the next safest is washed., If you plan to eat your leafy greens raw:, , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections linked to leafy greens., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of December 18, 2020, a total of 40 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from 19 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from August 10, 2020, to October 31, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from 1 to 85 years, with a median age of 33 years, and 60% were female. Of 34 ill people with information available, 20 people were hospitalized and 4 people developed hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), a type of kidney failure. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis was conducted for isolates from 19 ill people; an isolate from 1 ill person was predicted to be resistant to ampicillin and amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, and 18 isolates from ill people were not predicted to be resistant to any antibiotics. Standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157:H7 infections., Epidemiologic and traceback evidence showed that leafy greens were the likely source of this outbreak. Investigators were unable to identify a specific type or brand of leafy greens because people in this outbreak reported eating a variety of leafy greens and because different leafy greens are often grown, harvested, and processed together., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to determine what they ate and other exposures in the week before they got sick. Of the 23 ill people interviewed, 22 reported eating or maybe eating a variety of leafy greens, including spinach (16) and romaine lettuce (15)., FDA completed traceback investigations for several types of leafy greens ill people reported eating. Several farms of interest were identified, but no single ranch was a common source of the leafy greens., FDA and state partners conducted inspections on farms of interest and collected environmental samples. For more information, including the sampling results, visit the FDA outbreak webpageexternal icon., As of December 22, 2020, this outbreak is over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '5c86d77c5310454428a6fbb9ca5cb81af03397fe272b80a23215f77e9fac307b', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections – Unknown Source 3 | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 12, 22, 5, 45, 9, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=415498', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted on December 18, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak is over. Learn how you can prevent getting sick from E. coli., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated several multistate outbreaks of E. coli O157:H7 infections. This outbreak is different from two other E. coli O157:H7 outbreaks that occurred at the same time (E. coli outbreak with unknown source 1 and E. coli outbreak linked to leafy greens)., , , Follow these general ways to prevent getting sick from E. coli:, , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of December 16, 2020, a total of 18 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from nine states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from September 2, 2020, to November 6, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from 8 to 71 years, with a median age of 28 years, and 72% were female. Of 16 ill people with information available, 6 were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis of 15 isolates from ill people and 4 isolates from food did not predict resistance to any antibiotics. Standard antibiotic resistance testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157:H7 infections., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to determine what they ate and other exposures in the week before they got sick. Of the 13 people interviewed, all reported eating or maybe eating various types of leafy greens, including romaine lettuce (9), spinach (9), and iceberg lettuce (7)., Laboratory testing identified the outbreak strain in a sample of Tanimura &amp; Antle romaine lettuce in a single-head package, which was recalledexternal icon on November 6, 2020. However, investigators were unable to determine if any ill people in this outbreak got sick from eating the recalled product. No one specifically reported eating Tanimura &amp; Antle romaine lettuce, and some people got sick before the “packed on” dates for the recalled products., FDA conducted traceback investigations and worked with state partners to conduct inspections at several farms. However, none of the findings identified a common source in the distribution chain or linked the farms to the outbreak., As of December 18, 2020, this outbreak is over. This outbreak ended before enough information was available for investigators to identify the likely source., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '965bed3919dc149a99ea0d649e8fd342a0b3a46d3dfe4d1c8c6cb7f8271703a3', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections – Unknown Source 1 | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 12, 22, 5, 43, 55, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=415496', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted on December 18, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak is over. Learn how you can prevent getting sick from E. coli., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated several multistate outbreaks of E. coli O157:H7 infections. This outbreak is different from two other E. coli O157:H7 outbreaks that occurred at the same time (E. coli outbreak linked to leafy greens and E. coli outbreak with unknown source 3)., , , Follow these general ways to prevent getting sick from E. coli:, , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of December 16, 2020, a total of 32 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from 12 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from June 6, 2020, to October 25, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from 2 to 75 years, with a median age of 27 years, and 72% were female. Of 29 ill people with information available, 15 were hospitalized and 1 developed hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), a type of kidney failure. One death was reported from Michigan., WGS analysis of isolates from 15 ill people identified antibiotic resistance to chloramphenicol, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Standard antibiotic resistance testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157:H7 infections., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to determine what they ate and other exposures in the week before they got sick. Ill people reported eating a variety of food items. Several ill people also reported eating at the same restaurant and had eaten multiple common food items. CDC analyzed the interview data and did not identify a specific food item as a potential source of the outbreak. FDA conducted traceback investigations for several of the food items served at the restaurant and did not find a common source in the distribution chain., As of December 18, 2020, this outbreak is over. This outbreak ended before enough information was available for investigators to identify the likely source., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'df81137dfb54c35e0f5ddf841e32dcb63fbe04aac7637bc559ed2a9e041dd92a', 'headline': 'Outbreak Investigation Updates by Date  | E. coli O157:H7 Infections Linked to Leafy Greens | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 12, 22, 5, 23, 22, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=415500', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted on December 22, 2020 at 4:00 PM ET, This outbreak is over. Investigators have linked this outbreak to leafy greens, but a specific type or brand was not identified. You do not need to avoid eating leafy greens because of this outbreak. Learn more about how leafy greens can get contaminated and steps you can take to reduce your risk of getting sick from eating leafy greens., , Since the last update on October 28, 2020, 16 ill people were added to this investigation., As of November 19, 2020, a total of 39 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 18 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from August 10, 2020, to October 23, 2020. Ill people range in age from 1 to 85 years, with a median age of 38 years, and 62% are female. Of 30 ill people with information available, 19 people were hospitalized and 4 people developed hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of E. coli O157 Infection for more details., Investigators are continuing to collect different types of data to identify the source of this outbreak., State and local public health officials are interviewing ill people to determine what they ate and other exposures in the week before they got sick. Of the 22 ill people interviewed to date, all reported eating a variety of leafy greens, like spinach (16), romaine lettuce (15), iceberg lettuce (12), and mixed bag lettuce (8). No single type or brand of leafy greens or other food item has been identified as the source of this outbreak. CDC is not advising people avoid any particular food at this time., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) are investigating a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection.As of October 28, 2020, a total of 23 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 12 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from August 17, 2020, to October 8, 2020. Ill people range in age from 5 to 81 years, with a median age of 21 years. Sixty-seven percent of ill people are female. Of 15 ill people with information available, 10 hospitalizations have been reported, including 2 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 4 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of E. coli O157 Infection for more details., Investigators are reviewing different types of data to identify the source of this outbreak., State and local public health officials are interviewing ill people to determine what they ate and other exposures in the week before they got sick. People have reported eating a variety of foods, including leafy greens. Of the 13 people interviewed to date, all reported eating various types of leafy greens, like iceberg lettuce (9), romaine lettuce (8), mixed bag lettuce (6), and spinach (9)., This outbreak is caused by the same strain of E. coli O157:H7 that caused an outbreak linked to romaine lettuce in 2019. However, food linked to a previous outbreak alone is not enough to prove a link in another outbreak of the same strain. This is because different foods can be contaminated by the same strain of bacteria., Public health officials are continuing to interview ill people and the FDA is conducting farm inspections, sampling, and traceback investigations., A specific food item has not yet been identified as the source of this outbreak. CDC is not advising people avoid any particular food at this time., CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., Read the full Investigation Notice, , Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '4f44268fefb9ee9c31457a1fa14cde9a6de1f7eaae47f0a6d861382d86626da8', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections – Unknown Source 3 | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 12, 22, 5, 45, 9, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=415497', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted on December 18, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak is over. Learn how you can prevent getting sick from E. coli., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated several multistate outbreaks of E. coli O157:H7 infections. This outbreak is different from two other E. coli O157:H7 outbreaks that occurred at the same time (E. coli outbreak with unknown source 1 and E. coli outbreak linked to leafy greens)., , , Follow these general ways to prevent getting sick from E. coli:, , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of December 16, 2020, a total of 18 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from nine states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from September 2, 2020, to November 6, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from 8 to 71 years, with a median age of 28 years, and 72% were female. Of 16 ill people with information available, 6 were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis of 15 isolates from ill people and 4 isolates from food did not predict resistance to any antibiotics. Standard antibiotic resistance testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157:H7 infections., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to determine what they ate and other exposures in the week before they got sick. Of the 13 people interviewed, all reported eating or maybe eating various types of leafy greens, including romaine lettuce (9), spinach (9), and iceberg lettuce (7)., Laboratory testing identified the outbreak strain in a sample of Tanimura &amp; Antle romaine lettuce in a single-head package, which was recalledexternal icon on November 6, 2020. However, investigators were unable to determine if any ill people in this outbreak got sick from eating the recalled product. No one specifically reported eating Tanimura &amp; Antle romaine lettuce, and some people got sick before the “packed on” dates for the recalled products., FDA conducted traceback investigations and worked with state partners to conduct inspections at several farms. However, none of the findings identified a common source in the distribution chain or linked the farms to the outbreak., As of December 18, 2020, this outbreak is over. This outbreak ended before enough information was available for investigators to identify the likely source., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '24d0e060d9e021683d21cbd57483b906389aa87bca7221d2385b07278391f03e', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Leafy Greens | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2021, 1, 28, 12, 49, 51, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=415499', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted on December 22, 2020 at 4:00 PM ET, This outbreak is over. Investigators have linked this outbreak to leafy greens, but a specific type or brand was not identified. You do not need to avoid eating leafy greens because of this outbreak. Learn more about how leafy greens can get contaminated and steps you can take to reduce your risk of getting sick from eating leafy greens., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated several multistate outbreaks of E. coli O157:H7 infections. This outbreak is different from two other E. coli O157:H7 outbreaks that occurred at the same time (E. coli outbreak with unknown source 1 and E. coli outbreak with unknown source 3)., , , Vegetables, including leafy greens, are an important part of a healthy, balanced diet. However, they can sometimes be contaminated with harmful germs., The safest produce is cooked; the next safest is washed., If you plan to eat your leafy greens raw:, , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections linked to leafy greens., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of December 18, 2020, a total of 40 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from 19 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from August 10, 2020, to October 31, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from 1 to 85 years, with a median age of 33 years, and 60% were female. Of 34 ill people with information available, 20 people were hospitalized and 4 people developed hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), a type of kidney failure. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis was conducted for isolates from 19 ill people; an isolate from 1 ill person was predicted to be resistant to ampicillin and amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, and 18 isolates from ill people were not predicted to be resistant to any antibiotics. Standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157:H7 infections., Epidemiologic and traceback evidence showed that leafy greens were the likely source of this outbreak. Investigators were unable to identify a specific type or brand of leafy greens because people in this outbreak reported eating a variety of leafy greens and because different leafy greens are often grown, harvested, and processed together., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to determine what they ate and other exposures in the week before they got sick. Of the 23 ill people interviewed, 22 reported eating or maybe eating a variety of leafy greens, including spinach (16) and romaine lettuce (15)., FDA completed traceback investigations for several types of leafy greens ill people reported eating. Several farms of interest were identified, but no single ranch was a common source of the leafy greens., FDA and state partners conducted inspections on farms of interest and collected environmental samples. For more information, including the sampling results, visit the FDA outbreak webpageexternal icon., As of December 22, 2020, this outbreak is over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '1e7c62f380efe1348a60b1e93265fd2e53050ac158525c95178476b762e3ccbc', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections – Unknown Source 1 | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 12, 22, 5, 43, 55, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=415495', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted on December 18, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak is over. Learn how you can prevent getting sick from E. coli., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated several multistate outbreaks of E. coli O157:H7 infections. This outbreak is different from two other E. coli O157:H7 outbreaks that occurred at the same time (E. coli outbreak linked to leafy greens and E. coli outbreak with unknown source 3)., , , Follow these general ways to prevent getting sick from E. coli:, , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of December 16, 2020, a total of 32 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from 12 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from June 6, 2020, to October 25, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from 2 to 75 years, with a median age of 27 years, and 72% were female. Of 29 ill people with information available, 15 were hospitalized and 1 developed hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), a type of kidney failure. One death was reported from Michigan., WGS analysis of isolates from 15 ill people identified antibiotic resistance to chloramphenicol, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Standard antibiotic resistance testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157:H7 infections., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to determine what they ate and other exposures in the week before they got sick. Ill people reported eating a variety of food items. Several ill people also reported eating at the same restaurant and had eaten multiple common food items. CDC analyzed the interview data and did not identify a specific food item as a potential source of the outbreak. FDA conducted traceback investigations for several of the food items served at the restaurant and did not find a common source in the distribution chain., As of December 18, 2020, this outbreak is over. This outbreak ended before enough information was available for investigators to identify the likely source., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '650501a6606924b8da2d0857215ced08dfbee4f7faec9c40e047eed6404881c4', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Clover Sprouts  | E. coli O103 Infections Linked to Clover Sprouts | February 2020 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 22, 3, 21, 52, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=411290', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted on April 22, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, raw and lightly cooked sprouts are a known source of foodborne illness. CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and other retailers always follow food safety practices to avoid illness from eating sprouts., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O103 infections linked to clover sprouts., ,  , Recalled sprouts that made people sick in this outbreak would be past their expiration date. Sprouts are a known source of foodborne illness., Reduce your risk of getting sick from raw or lightly cooked sprouts., , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O103 infections linked to clover sprouts., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 51 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O103 were reported from 10 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 6, 2020, to March 15, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from 1 to 79 years, with a median age of 29 years. Fifty-five percent of ill people were female. Of 41 ill people with information available, 3 were hospitalized and no deaths were reported., WGS analysis of isolates from 39 ill people was performed; the isolate from 1 ill person predicted antibiotic resistance to streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and 38 isolates from ill people did not show evidence of antibiotic resistance. Standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with STEC O103 infections., Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory evidence indicated that clover sprouts were the source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures they had in the week before their illness started. Eighteen (56%) of 32 people interviewed reported eating sprouts. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey pdf icon[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people in which 8% reported eating sprouts in the week before they were interviewed., Seventeen (63%) of 27 people interviewed reported eating sprouts at a Jimmy John’s restaurant. Jimmy John’s LLC reported that all of their restaurants stopped serving clover sprouts on February 24, 2020. Clover sprouts are no longer available at Jimmy John’s restaurants., Additionally, FDA identified the outbreak strain of E. coli O103 in samples of Chicago Indoor Garden products that contain sprouts. On March 16, 2020, Chicago Indoor Garden recalledexternal icon all products containing red clover sprouts., FDA’s traceback investigationexternal icon showed that a common seed lot was used to grow both the sprouts recalled by Chicago Indoor Garden and sprouts that were served at some Jimmy John’s locations. The same seed lot was also used to grow sprouts linked to an outbreakexternal icon of the same strain of E. coli O103 infections in 2019., As of April 22, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '02d3f35b148ab757b72367aff9f95ca0516abda99a7a56f6dd54278ac6be4e5d', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Clover Sprouts  | E. coli O103 Infections Linked to Clover Sprouts | February 2020 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 22, 3, 21, 52, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=411292', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted on April 22, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, raw and lightly cooked sprouts are a known source of foodborne illness. CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and other retailers always follow food safety practices to avoid illness from eating sprouts., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O103 infections linked to clover sprouts., ,  , Recalled sprouts that made people sick in this outbreak would be past their expiration date. Sprouts are a known source of foodborne illness., Reduce your risk of getting sick from raw or lightly cooked sprouts., , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O103 infections linked to clover sprouts., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 51 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O103 were reported from 10 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 6, 2020, to March 15, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from 1 to 79 years, with a median age of 29 years. Fifty-five percent of ill people were female. Of 41 ill people with information available, 3 were hospitalized and no deaths were reported., WGS analysis of isolates from 39 ill people was performed; the isolate from 1 ill person predicted antibiotic resistance to streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and 38 isolates from ill people did not show evidence of antibiotic resistance. Standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with STEC O103 infections., Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory evidence indicated that clover sprouts were the source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures they had in the week before their illness started. Eighteen (56%) of 32 people interviewed reported eating sprouts. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey pdf icon[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people in which 8% reported eating sprouts in the week before they were interviewed., Seventeen (63%) of 27 people interviewed reported eating sprouts at a Jimmy John’s restaurant. Jimmy John’s LLC reported that all of their restaurants stopped serving clover sprouts on February 24, 2020. Clover sprouts are no longer available at Jimmy John’s restaurants., Additionally, FDA identified the outbreak strain of E. coli O103 in samples of Chicago Indoor Garden products that contain sprouts. On March 16, 2020, Chicago Indoor Garden recalledexternal icon all products containing red clover sprouts., FDA’s traceback investigationexternal icon showed that a common seed lot was used to grow both the sprouts recalled by Chicago Indoor Garden and sprouts that were served at some Jimmy John’s locations. The same seed lot was also used to grow sprouts linked to an outbreakexternal icon of the same strain of E. coli O103 infections in 2019., As of April 22, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'ca82fd52b10128267cc147c06fffdbe65d9e95a9afd373540ca74adcf0964aef', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Clover Sprouts  | E. coli O103 Infections Linked to Clover Sprouts | February 2020 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 4, 22, 3, 21, 52, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=411291', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted on April 22, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. However, raw and lightly cooked sprouts are a known source of foodborne illness. CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and other retailers always follow food safety practices to avoid illness from eating sprouts., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O103 infections linked to clover sprouts., ,  , Recalled sprouts that made people sick in this outbreak would be past their expiration date. Sprouts are a known source of foodborne illness., Reduce your risk of getting sick from raw or lightly cooked sprouts., , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O103 infections linked to clover sprouts., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 51 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O103 were reported from 10 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 6, 2020, to March 15, 2020. Ill people ranged in age from 1 to 79 years, with a median age of 29 years. Fifty-five percent of ill people were female. Of 41 ill people with information available, 3 were hospitalized and no deaths were reported., WGS analysis of isolates from 39 ill people was performed; the isolate from 1 ill person predicted antibiotic resistance to streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and 38 isolates from ill people did not show evidence of antibiotic resistance. Standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with STEC O103 infections., Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory evidence indicated that clover sprouts were the source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures they had in the week before their illness started. Eighteen (56%) of 32 people interviewed reported eating sprouts. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey pdf icon[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people in which 8% reported eating sprouts in the week before they were interviewed., Seventeen (63%) of 27 people interviewed reported eating sprouts at a Jimmy John’s restaurant. Jimmy John’s LLC reported that all of their restaurants stopped serving clover sprouts on February 24, 2020. Clover sprouts are no longer available at Jimmy John’s restaurants., Additionally, FDA identified the outbreak strain of E. coli O103 in samples of Chicago Indoor Garden products that contain sprouts. On March 16, 2020, Chicago Indoor Garden recalledexternal icon all products containing red clover sprouts., FDA’s traceback investigationexternal icon showed that a common seed lot was used to grow both the sprouts recalled by Chicago Indoor Garden and sprouts that were served at some Jimmy John’s locations. The same seed lot was also used to grow sprouts linked to an outbreakexternal icon of the same strain of E. coli O103 infections in 2019., As of April 22, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'c917a97c50696fa60f44526605b9b180085ae40dd404b8d45453026fde51d42b', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp Chopped Salad Kits  | E. coli Infections Linked to Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp Chopped Salad Kits | December 2019 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 1, 14, 7, 25, 10, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=411288', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted on January 15, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. E. coli is an important cause of illness in the United States. Find more information about steps you can take to reduce your risk of infection on the E. coli and Food Safety web page., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states and Canada, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections linked to Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp chopped salad kits., , , Contaminated Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp chopped salad kits that made people sick in this outbreak are past their shelf-life and should no longer be available. The affected salads had best-before dates up to and including December 7, 2019., , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli O157:H7 infections. This investigation included illnesses in Canada reported by the Public Health Agency of Canadaexternal icon. This outbreak was caused by a different strain of E. coli O157:H7 than the outbreak linked to romaine lettuce from the Salinas, California, growing region., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people in the United States and Canada were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 10 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from five states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from November 5, 2019, to November 16, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from 21 to 91, with a median age of 33. Among ill people, 60% were female. Four of ten ill people were hospitalized, including one person who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis of isolates from 10 ill people identified antibiotic resistance to chloramphenicol, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Standard antibiotic resistance testing of clinical isolates by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157 infections., Information collected during the investigation indicated that Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp chopped salad kits were the likely source of this outbreak., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to determine what they ate and other exposures in the week before their illness started. Of 10 ill people with information available, all 10 (100%) reported eating any leafy greens in the week before their illness started. Eight ill people specifically reported eating or maybe eating a Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp chopped salad kit., Romaine lettuce was one of the ingredients in the salad kit, but the investigation was not able to determine if romaine lettuce was the contaminated ingredient in the salad kit. For more information about the traceback investigation, visit the FDA websiteexternal icon., As of January 15, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'c352da549fb1e081c91ff2e56380ce0faf8c587514236612b3f2e7c32c5ee679', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Romaine Lettuce  | E.coli Infections | November 2019 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 1, 15, 4, 58, 45, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=411285', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted January 15, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. CDC is no longer advising that people avoid romaine lettuce from the Salinas Valley growing region in California. E. coli is an important cause of illness in the United States. More information about E. coli, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the E. coli and Food Safety web page., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections linked to romaine lettuce harvested from the Salinas Valley growing region in California., , , Contaminated romaine lettuce that made people sick in this outbreak from the Salinas Valley growing region in California is no longer available for sale. CDC is no longer advising that people avoid romaine lettuce from the Salinas Valley growing region in California., Follow these steps to help keep you healthy and make your fruits and vegetables safer to eat:, Take action if you have symptoms of an E. coli infection., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli (STEC) O157:H7 infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection. WGS also showed that this outbreak was caused by the same strain of E. coli O157:H7 that caused outbreaks linked to leafy greens in 2017 and to romaine lettuce in 2018., A total of 167 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from 27 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page. The Public Health Agency of Canadaexternal icon also reported several illnesses that were closely related genetically to illnesses in the United States., Illnesses started on dates ranging from September 20, 2019, to December 21, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 to 89 years, with a median age of 27. Sixty-four percent of ill people were female. Of 165 ill people with information available, 85 (52%) hospitalizations were reported, including 15 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), a type of kidney failure. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis of bacterial isolates from 159 ill people did not predict antibiotic resistance in 157 of the isolates, but predicted resistance in 2 isolates. One isolate contained a resistance gene for ampicillin, and a second isolate contained resistance genes for ampicillin, chloramphenicol, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline. WGS analysis of five bacterial isolates from a lettuce sample did not predict antimicrobial resistance. Standard antibiotic resistance testing of clinical isolates by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157 infections., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicated that romaine lettuce from the Salinas Valley growing region in California was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Ninety-four (83%) of 113 people interviewed reported eating romaine lettuce. This percentage was significantly higher than results from a survey pdf icon[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people in which 47% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed. Ill people reported eating different types of romaine lettuce in several restaurants and at home., The Maryland Department of Healthexternal icon identified the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 in an unopened package of Ready Pac Foods Bistro® Chicken Caesar Salad collected from a sick person’s home in Maryland. The Wisconsin Department of Health Servicesexternal icon identified the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 in an unopened bag of Fresh Express® Leafy Green Romaine collected from an ill person’s home in Wisconsin. The Salinas Valley growing region in California was the main source of the romaine lettuce in both products., FDA and states traced the source of some of the romaine lettuce eaten by ill people. Information gathered indicated that the romaine lettuce of interest was harvested from the Salinas Valley growing region in California. For more information about the traceback investigation, visit the FDA websiteexternal icon., Contaminated romaine lettuce from the Salinas Valley growing region in California is no longer available for sale. As of January 15, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '6fd1a1f77e8e3e04d4fb30ba0ac98abd2abd51f37df8cd86992653b31fb39599', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp Chopped Salad Kits  | E. coli Infections Linked to Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp Chopped Salad Kits | December 2019 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 1, 14, 7, 25, 10, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=411289', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted on January 15, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. E. coli is an important cause of illness in the United States. Find more information about steps you can take to reduce your risk of infection on the E. coli and Food Safety web page., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states and Canada, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections linked to Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp chopped salad kits., , , Contaminated Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp chopped salad kits that made people sick in this outbreak are past their shelf-life and should no longer be available. The affected salads had best-before dates up to and including December 7, 2019., , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli O157:H7 infections. This investigation included illnesses in Canada reported by the Public Health Agency of Canadaexternal icon. This outbreak was caused by a different strain of E. coli O157:H7 than the outbreak linked to romaine lettuce from the Salinas, California, growing region., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people in the United States and Canada were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 10 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from five states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from November 5, 2019, to November 16, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from 21 to 91, with a median age of 33. Among ill people, 60% were female. Four of ten ill people were hospitalized, including one person who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis of isolates from 10 ill people identified antibiotic resistance to chloramphenicol, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Standard antibiotic resistance testing of clinical isolates by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157 infections., Information collected during the investigation indicated that Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp chopped salad kits were the likely source of this outbreak., State and local public health officials interviewed ill people to determine what they ate and other exposures in the week before their illness started. Of 10 ill people with information available, all 10 (100%) reported eating any leafy greens in the week before their illness started. Eight ill people specifically reported eating or maybe eating a Fresh Express Sunflower Crisp chopped salad kit., Romaine lettuce was one of the ingredients in the salad kit, but the investigation was not able to determine if romaine lettuce was the contaminated ingredient in the salad kit. For more information about the traceback investigation, visit the FDA websiteexternal icon., As of January 15, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '4968e4301b5d63e90019c12a840b1bcdcad351c78ad77a95783539b71310f0fc', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Romaine Lettuce  | E.coli Infections | November 2019 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 1, 15, 4, 58, 45, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=411287', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted January 15, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. CDC is no longer advising that people avoid romaine lettuce from the Salinas Valley growing region in California. E. coli is an important cause of illness in the United States. More information about E. coli, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the E. coli and Food Safety web page., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections linked to romaine lettuce harvested from the Salinas Valley growing region in California., , , Contaminated romaine lettuce that made people sick in this outbreak from the Salinas Valley growing region in California is no longer available for sale. CDC is no longer advising that people avoid romaine lettuce from the Salinas Valley growing region in California., Follow these steps to help keep you healthy and make your fruits and vegetables safer to eat:, Take action if you have symptoms of an E. coli infection., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli (STEC) O157:H7 infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection. WGS also showed that this outbreak was caused by the same strain of E. coli O157:H7 that caused outbreaks linked to leafy greens in 2017 and to romaine lettuce in 2018., A total of 167 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from 27 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page. The Public Health Agency of Canadaexternal icon also reported several illnesses that were closely related genetically to illnesses in the United States., Illnesses started on dates ranging from September 20, 2019, to December 21, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 to 89 years, with a median age of 27. Sixty-four percent of ill people were female. Of 165 ill people with information available, 85 (52%) hospitalizations were reported, including 15 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), a type of kidney failure. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis of bacterial isolates from 159 ill people did not predict antibiotic resistance in 157 of the isolates, but predicted resistance in 2 isolates. One isolate contained a resistance gene for ampicillin, and a second isolate contained resistance genes for ampicillin, chloramphenicol, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline. WGS analysis of five bacterial isolates from a lettuce sample did not predict antimicrobial resistance. Standard antibiotic resistance testing of clinical isolates by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157 infections., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicated that romaine lettuce from the Salinas Valley growing region in California was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Ninety-four (83%) of 113 people interviewed reported eating romaine lettuce. This percentage was significantly higher than results from a survey pdf icon[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people in which 47% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed. Ill people reported eating different types of romaine lettuce in several restaurants and at home., The Maryland Department of Healthexternal icon identified the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 in an unopened package of Ready Pac Foods Bistro® Chicken Caesar Salad collected from a sick person’s home in Maryland. The Wisconsin Department of Health Servicesexternal icon identified the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 in an unopened bag of Fresh Express® Leafy Green Romaine collected from an ill person’s home in Wisconsin. The Salinas Valley growing region in California was the main source of the romaine lettuce in both products., FDA and states traced the source of some of the romaine lettuce eaten by ill people. Information gathered indicated that the romaine lettuce of interest was harvested from the Salinas Valley growing region in California. For more information about the traceback investigation, visit the FDA websiteexternal icon., Contaminated romaine lettuce from the Salinas Valley growing region in California is no longer available for sale. As of January 15, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '8d42ff432cbbdde7ae2c1e3fe64340f6088e17b893f2773172552acdf819e647', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Romaine Lettuce  | E.coli Infections | November 2019 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2020, 1, 15, 4, 58, 45, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=411286', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted January 15, 2020 at 3:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. CDC is no longer advising that people avoid romaine lettuce from the Salinas Valley growing region in California. E. coli is an important cause of illness in the United States. More information about E. coli, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the E. coli and Food Safety web page., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections linked to romaine lettuce harvested from the Salinas Valley growing region in California., , , Contaminated romaine lettuce that made people sick in this outbreak from the Salinas Valley growing region in California is no longer available for sale. CDC is no longer advising that people avoid romaine lettuce from the Salinas Valley growing region in California., Follow these steps to help keep you healthy and make your fruits and vegetables safer to eat:, Take action if you have symptoms of an E. coli infection., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli (STEC) O157:H7 infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection. WGS also showed that this outbreak was caused by the same strain of E. coli O157:H7 that caused outbreaks linked to leafy greens in 2017 and to romaine lettuce in 2018., A total of 167 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from 27 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page. The Public Health Agency of Canadaexternal icon also reported several illnesses that were closely related genetically to illnesses in the United States., Illnesses started on dates ranging from September 20, 2019, to December 21, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 to 89 years, with a median age of 27. Sixty-four percent of ill people were female. Of 165 ill people with information available, 85 (52%) hospitalizations were reported, including 15 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), a type of kidney failure. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis of bacterial isolates from 159 ill people did not predict antibiotic resistance in 157 of the isolates, but predicted resistance in 2 isolates. One isolate contained a resistance gene for ampicillin, and a second isolate contained resistance genes for ampicillin, chloramphenicol, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, and tetracycline. WGS analysis of five bacterial isolates from a lettuce sample did not predict antimicrobial resistance. Standard antibiotic resistance testing of clinical isolates by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157 infections., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicated that romaine lettuce from the Salinas Valley growing region in California was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Ninety-four (83%) of 113 people interviewed reported eating romaine lettuce. This percentage was significantly higher than results from a survey pdf icon[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people in which 47% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed. Ill people reported eating different types of romaine lettuce in several restaurants and at home., The Maryland Department of Healthexternal icon identified the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 in an unopened package of Ready Pac Foods Bistro® Chicken Caesar Salad collected from a sick person’s home in Maryland. The Wisconsin Department of Health Servicesexternal icon identified the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 in an unopened bag of Fresh Express® Leafy Green Romaine collected from an ill person’s home in Wisconsin. The Salinas Valley growing region in California was the main source of the romaine lettuce in both products., FDA and states traced the source of some of the romaine lettuce eaten by ill people. Information gathered indicated that the romaine lettuce of interest was harvested from the Salinas Valley growing region in California. For more information about the traceback investigation, visit the FDA websiteexternal icon., Contaminated romaine lettuce from the Salinas Valley growing region in California is no longer available for sale. As of January 15, 2020, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'c9ac36432bd92f7e360dba6a146e5989fc1384ab1a755cbcedecb7827508264a', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli \xa0Infections Linked to Ground Bison Produced by Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc.  | E.coli Infections Linked to Ground Bison Produced by Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc. | July 2019 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 9, 13, 7, 38, 3, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=402528', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted September 13, 2019 at 4:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) is an important cause of illness in the United States. Find more information about steps you can take to reduce your risk of infection on the E. coli and Food Safety web page., CDC, several states, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency investigated a multistate outbreak of E. Coli O103 and E. Coli O121 infections linked to ground bison., ,  , , Advice, Always handle and cook ground meats safely to avoid foodborne illness. Thoroughly cook ground bison and any food that contains ground bison to an internal temperature of 160°F to kill germs. Never eat, serve, or sell recalled ground bison., Wash hands with soap and water after touching raw ground bison. Use hot, soapy water or a bleach solution to wash items that came in contact with raw meat or its juices., Recall, On July 16, 2019, Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc., in Saint-Leonard, Quebec, Canada, recalledexternal icon ground bison produced between February 22, 2019, and April 30, 2019. Recalled ground bison was sold to distributors as ground bison and bison patties, referred to as Bison Burgers and/or Buffalo Burgers. Recalled ground bison was also sold to retailers in 4-ounce burger patties., , , CDC, several states, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency investigated a multistate outbreak of E. Coli O103 and E. Coli O121 infections linked to ground bison from Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 33 people infected with the outbreak strain of STEC O103 (8 people), STEC O121 (21 people), or both (4 people) were reported from 8 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 18, 2019, to August 11, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from 6 to 80 years, with a median age of 27. Fifty-two percent of ill people were female. Of 31 ill people with information available, 18 hospitalizations were reported. No deaths were reported, and no cases of hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure, have been reported., WGS analysis of isolates from 26 ill people was performed; isolates from 10 ill people predicted antibiotic resistance to streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and 16 isolates from ill people did not show evidence of antibiotic resistance. Standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with STEC O121 or STEC O103 infections., This investigation began on June 10, 2019, when PulseNet notified CDC of this outbreak. Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory evidence indicated that ground bison produced by Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc., was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 23 people who were asked, 13 (57%) reported that they ate or maybe ate ground bison. Ill people ate ground bison in burgers from several different restaurants or prepared ground bison at home., Federal, state, and local officials collected records from the restaurants where ill people ate ground bison. These records showed that the ground bison produced by Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc., was sold in several restaurants where ill people ate ground bison. The outbreak strain of STEC O121 was isolated from bison burgers manufactured by the Canadian firm., On July 16, 2019, Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc., in Saint-Leonard, Quebec, Canada, recalled ground bison and bison patties (referred to as Bison Burgers and/or Buffalo Burgers) produced between February 22, 2019, and April 30, 2019. Consumers should not eat, and restaurants and retailers should not serve or sell, recalled ground bison products., As of September 13, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '809e61648e2868e23d1cc48e23701437e798c00ea740d475f9241359a8cc13d8', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli \xa0Infections Linked to Ground Bison Produced by Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc.  | E.coli Infections Linked to Ground Bison Produced by Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc. | July 2019 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 9, 13, 7, 38, 3, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=401141', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted September 13, 2019 at 4:00 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) is an important cause of illness in the United States. Find more information about steps you can take to reduce your risk of infection on the E. coli and Food Safety web page., CDC, several states, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency investigated a multistate outbreak of E. Coli O103 and E. Coli O121 infections linked to ground bison., ,  , , Advice, Always handle and cook ground meats safely to avoid foodborne illness. Thoroughly cook ground bison and any food that contains ground bison to an internal temperature of 160°F to kill germs. Never eat, serve, or sell recalled ground bison., Wash hands with soap and water after touching raw ground bison. Use hot, soapy water or a bleach solution to wash items that came in contact with raw meat or its juices., Recall, On July 16, 2019, Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc., in Saint-Leonard, Quebec, Canada, recalledexternal icon ground bison produced between February 22, 2019, and April 30, 2019. Recalled ground bison was sold to distributors as ground bison and bison patties, referred to as Bison Burgers and/or Buffalo Burgers. Recalled ground bison was also sold to retailers in 4-ounce burger patties., , , CDC, several states, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency investigated a multistate outbreak of E. Coli O103 and E. Coli O121 infections linked to ground bison from Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using a standardized laboratory and data analysis method called whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these sequences that are used to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives investigators detailed information about the bacteria causing illness. In this investigation, WGS showed that bacteria isolated from ill people were closely related genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 33 people infected with the outbreak strain of STEC O103 (8 people), STEC O121 (21 people), or both (4 people) were reported from 8 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 18, 2019, to August 11, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from 6 to 80 years, with a median age of 27. Fifty-two percent of ill people were female. Of 31 ill people with information available, 18 hospitalizations were reported. No deaths were reported, and no cases of hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure, have been reported., WGS analysis of isolates from 26 ill people was performed; isolates from 10 ill people predicted antibiotic resistance to streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and 16 isolates from ill people did not show evidence of antibiotic resistance. Standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is currently underway. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with STEC O121 or STEC O103 infections., This investigation began on June 10, 2019, when PulseNet notified CDC of this outbreak. Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory evidence indicated that ground bison produced by Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc., was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 23 people who were asked, 13 (57%) reported that they ate or maybe ate ground bison. Ill people ate ground bison in burgers from several different restaurants or prepared ground bison at home., Federal, state, and local officials collected records from the restaurants where ill people ate ground bison. These records showed that the ground bison produced by Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc., was sold in several restaurants where ill people ate ground bison. The outbreak strain of STEC O121 was isolated from bison burgers manufactured by the Canadian firm., On July 16, 2019, Northfork Bison Distributions, Inc., in Saint-Leonard, Quebec, Canada, recalled ground bison and bison patties (referred to as Bison Burgers and/or Buffalo Burgers) produced between February 22, 2019, and April 30, 2019. Consumers should not eat, and restaurants and retailers should not serve or sell, recalled ground bison products., As of September 13, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '0a2ad9b09b1d5cc44321e1a7e6463a254f2732ee0f897e0f551eb082f986f737', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Flour \r\n | E. coli Infections Linked to Flour | May 2019 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 7, 11, 5, 44, 14, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=401140', 'main_text': 'Final Update, July 11, 2019 at 2:30 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over, but the recalled flour products have long shelf lives and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers who don’t know about the recalls could continue to eat the products and get sick. A list of the recalled products and how to identify them is available below in the Recalls and Advice to Consumers section., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)external icon investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (E. coli) O26 infections linked to flour., ,  , , Several brands and types of flour were recalled because they may be contaminated with E. coli. Consumers should not use recalled products. The following products were recalled:, Brand Castle Mixes, Pillsbury Best Bread Flour, King Arthur Flour, ALDI Baker’s Corner All Purpose flour, Consumers should not use any of the recalled flour. Throw it out., Eating raw dough can make you sick., Clean up thoroughly after baking., Contact your healthcare provider if you think you may have become ill from eating raw dough., Restaurants and other retailers should not use, sell, or serve any of the recalled flour., Restaurants and other retailers should always be safe with raw dough., , , Antibiotics are not recommended for patients with suspected E. coli infections until diagnostic testing can be performed and E. coli infection is ruled out. Some studies have shown that administering antibiotics to patients with E. coli infections might increase their risk of developing hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), and a benefit of treatment has not been clearly demonstrated., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)external icon investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O26 infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on bacteria isolated from ill people showed that they were closely relatedly genetically. This means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of July 11, 2019, a total of 21 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O26 were reported from 9 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from December 11, 2018 to May 21, 2019. Ill people range in age from 7 to 86 years, with a median age of 24. Seventy-one percent of ill people were female. Of 20 people with information available, 3 (15%) were hospitalized. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis of 21 clinical isolates and one food isolate did not predict resistance to any antibiotics. Testing of three clinical outbreak isolates using standard antibiotic susceptibility testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory also showed no resistance., Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence, supported by product distribution records, indicated that flour was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of 13 people who were asked, 6 (46%) reported eating, licking, or tasting raw, homemade dough or batter. Three people with detailed information reported eating raw dough or batter made with Baker’s Corner All-Purpose flour., Investigators with the Rhode Island Department of Health collected records and flour samples at a bakery where an ill person reported eating raw dough. Records indicated that the bakery used Baker’s Corner All Purpose Flour from ALDI. The outbreak strain was isolated from an unopened bag of Baker’s Corner All Purpose Flour collected at the bakery., WGS results showed that the E. coli O26 strain identified in the Baker’s Corner All Purpose Flour sample was closely related genetically to the E. coli O26 strain identified in ill people. These results provide additional evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating flour., On May 23, 2019, ALDI, in association with ADM Milling Co., recalled pdf icon[PDF – 142 KB]external icon 5 lb. bags of Baker’s Corner All Purpose Flour sold at retail locations in several states because they may be contaminated with E. coli. Additional products were recalled because they may be contaminated with E. coli. For more information about these recalls, visit the FDA websiteexternal icon., As of July 11, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '8811b27b443309c580c05c45e8f7869d2577258ee3f8a2cdf98c927ba654a4e7', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Ground Beef  | E. coli Infections | April 2019 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 6, 19, 2, 6, 23, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=401139', 'main_text': 'Final Update, June 19, 2019 at 11:00 AM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. Ill people in this outbreak ate ground beef from many sources. No single supplier, distributor, or brand of ground beef was identified. Consumers and restaurants should always handle and cook ground beef safely to avoid foodborne illness., CDC, several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (E. coli) O103 infections linked to ground beef., ,  , , Ill people in this outbreak ate ground beef from many sources. Consumers and restaurants should always handle and cook ground beef safely to avoid foodborne illness. Thoroughly cook ground beef and any food that contains ground beef to kill germs. Never eat, serve, or sell recalled ground beef., Wash hands with soap and water after touching raw ground beef. Use hot, soapy water or a bleach solution to wash items that came in contact with raw meat or its juices. , For more information about how to handle ground beef safely, call the USDA Meat and Poultry Hotlineexternal icon at 1-888-MPHotline (1-888-674-6854)., No single supplier, distributor, or brand of ground beef was identified that could account for all the illnesses. But certain ground beef products were recalled as part of the investigation. Restaurants, retailers, and institutions should not sell or serve the following recalled ground beef products because they may be contaminated with E. coli O103 and could make people sick:, Grant Park Packing in Franklin Park, Ill., recalledexternal icon approximately 53,200 pounds of raw ground beef products on April 24, 2019., K2D Foods, doing business as Colorado Premium Foods, in Carrollton, Ga., recalledexternal icon approximately 113,424 pounds of raw ground beef products on April 23, 2019., Take action if you have symptoms of an E. coli infection:, , , Antibiotics are not recommended for patients with suspected E. coli infections until diagnostic testing can be performed and E. coli infection is ruled out. Some studies have shown that administering antibiotics to patients with E. coli infections might increase their risk of developing HUS, and a benefit of treatment has not been clearly demonstrated., CDC, several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS ) investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli O103 infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on E. coli from ill people in this outbreak showed that they were closely related genetically. This means that the ill people were more likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 209 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O103 were reported from 10 states. A list of the states and the number of confirmed cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates from March 1, 2019, to May 1, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 84 years, with a median age of 18. Fifty-one percent were female. Of 191 people with information available, 29 (15%) were hospitalized. Two cases of hemolytic uremic syndrome were reported. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis was performed on 187 isolates from ill people and 10 isolates from food samples. WGS analysis of 184 isolates from people and 10 from food did not predict any antibiotic resistance; 3 patient isolates had predicted resistance to ampicillin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Standard antibiotic resistance testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) of two patient isolates also did not show resistance. These resistance findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with Shiga toxin-producing E. coli infections., This multistate investigation began on March 28, 2019, when officials in Kentucky and Georgia notified CDC of this outbreak. Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that ground beef was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 159 people interviewed, 125 (79%) reported eating ground beef. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey pdf icon[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people. Ill people bought or ate ground beef from several different grocery stores and restaurants. Many ill people bought large trays or chubs of ground beef from grocery stores and used the meat to make dishes like spaghetti and sloppy joe., Officials at USDA-FSIS, in Kentucky, and in Tennessee collected ground beef from a restaurant and an institution where ill people reported eating. Laboratory testing identified the outbreak strain of E. coli O103 in the ground beef collected in Tennessee. A different strain of E. coli O103 was identified in the ground beef collected in Kentucky. This strain was not linked to illnesses., Two companies recalled raw ground beef products because they may be contaminated with E. coli. Grant Park Packing in Franklin Park, Ill., recalledexternal icon approximately 53,200 pounds of raw ground beef products on April 24, 2019. K2D Foods, doing business as Colorado Premium Foods, in Carrollton, Ga., recalledexternal icon approximately 113,424 pounds of raw ground beef products on April 23, 2019. These products were sold to restaurants and institutions., USDA-FSIS and state regulatory officials collected products for testing at retailers and establishments, and all products tested were negative for E. coli. USDA-FSIS conducted traceback investigations to determine the source of ground beef supplied to grocery stores and restaurants where ill people ate. Ill people in this outbreak ate ground beef from many sources. No single supplier, distributor, or brand of ground beef was identified. Consumers should handle ground beef safely and cook it thoroughly., As of June 19, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '017d68770a17d3dd2941d568b2da51aaa51302f83e592fc8b8249766eb7263a3', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Ground Beef  | E. coli Infections | April 2019 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 6, 19, 2, 6, 23, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=397267', 'main_text': 'Final Update, June 19, 2019 at 11:00 AM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. Ill people in this outbreak ate ground beef from many sources. No single supplier, distributor, or brand of ground beef was identified. Consumers and restaurants should always handle and cook ground beef safely to avoid foodborne illness., CDC, several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (E. coli) O103 infections linked to ground beef., ,  , , Ill people in this outbreak ate ground beef from many sources. Consumers and restaurants should always handle and cook ground beef safely to avoid foodborne illness. Thoroughly cook ground beef and any food that contains ground beef to kill germs. Never eat, serve, or sell recalled ground beef., Wash hands with soap and water after touching raw ground beef. Use hot, soapy water or a bleach solution to wash items that came in contact with raw meat or its juices. , For more information about how to handle ground beef safely, call the USDA Meat and Poultry Hotlineexternal icon at 1-888-MPHotline (1-888-674-6854)., No single supplier, distributor, or brand of ground beef was identified that could account for all the illnesses. But certain ground beef products were recalled as part of the investigation. Restaurants, retailers, and institutions should not sell or serve the following recalled ground beef products because they may be contaminated with E. coli O103 and could make people sick:, Grant Park Packing in Franklin Park, Ill., recalledexternal icon approximately 53,200 pounds of raw ground beef products on April 24, 2019., K2D Foods, doing business as Colorado Premium Foods, in Carrollton, Ga., recalledexternal icon approximately 113,424 pounds of raw ground beef products on April 23, 2019., Take action if you have symptoms of an E. coli infection:, , , Antibiotics are not recommended for patients with suspected E. coli infections until diagnostic testing can be performed and E. coli infection is ruled out. Some studies have shown that administering antibiotics to patients with E. coli infections might increase their risk of developing HUS, and a benefit of treatment has not been clearly demonstrated., CDC, several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS ) investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli O103 infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may have been part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on E. coli from ill people in this outbreak showed that they were closely related genetically. This means that the ill people were more likely to share a common source of infection., A total of 209 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O103 were reported from 10 states. A list of the states and the number of confirmed cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates from March 1, 2019, to May 1, 2019. Ill people ranged in age from less than 1 year to 84 years, with a median age of 18. Fifty-one percent were female. Of 191 people with information available, 29 (15%) were hospitalized. Two cases of hemolytic uremic syndrome were reported. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis was performed on 187 isolates from ill people and 10 isolates from food samples. WGS analysis of 184 isolates from people and 10 from food did not predict any antibiotic resistance; 3 patient isolates had predicted resistance to ampicillin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Standard antibiotic resistance testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) of two patient isolates also did not show resistance. These resistance findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with Shiga toxin-producing E. coli infections., This multistate investigation began on March 28, 2019, when officials in Kentucky and Georgia notified CDC of this outbreak. Epidemiologic and laboratory evidence indicated that ground beef was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Of the 159 people interviewed, 125 (79%) reported eating ground beef. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey pdf icon[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people. Ill people bought or ate ground beef from several different grocery stores and restaurants. Many ill people bought large trays or chubs of ground beef from grocery stores and used the meat to make dishes like spaghetti and sloppy joe., Officials at USDA-FSIS, in Kentucky, and in Tennessee collected ground beef from a restaurant and an institution where ill people reported eating. Laboratory testing identified the outbreak strain of E. coli O103 in the ground beef collected in Tennessee. A different strain of E. coli O103 was identified in the ground beef collected in Kentucky. This strain was not linked to illnesses., Two companies recalled raw ground beef products because they may be contaminated with E. coli. Grant Park Packing in Franklin Park, Ill., recalledexternal icon approximately 53,200 pounds of raw ground beef products on April 24, 2019. K2D Foods, doing business as Colorado Premium Foods, in Carrollton, Ga., recalledexternal icon approximately 113,424 pounds of raw ground beef products on April 23, 2019. These products were sold to restaurants and institutions., USDA-FSIS and state regulatory officials collected products for testing at retailers and establishments, and all products tested were negative for E. coli. USDA-FSIS conducted traceback investigations to determine the source of ground beef supplied to grocery stores and restaurants where ill people ate. Ill people in this outbreak ate ground beef from many sources. No single supplier, distributor, or brand of ground beef was identified. Consumers should handle ground beef safely and cook it thoroughly., As of June 19, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '02b4b84b5df2e7ca0eac61a18386fe5d5454c839b6952ab1596ae635d87fc35f', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Romaine Lettuce  | E. coli Infections Linked to Romaine Lettuce | November 2018 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 17, 6, 37, 54, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=394552', 'main_text': 'Final Update, Posted January 9, 2019 at 4:30 PM ET, This outbreak appears to be over. E. coli is an important cause of illness in the United States. More information about E. coli, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the E. coli and Food Safety web page., CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, CanadaExternal, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O157:H7 (E. coli O157:H7) infections linked to romaine lettuce from the Central Coastal growing regions in northern and central California. This outbreak appears to be over., , On December 13, 2018, Adam Bros. Farming, Inc., in Santa Barbara County recalled Cdc-pdf[PDF – 10.1 KB]External red leaf lettuce, green leaf lettuce, and cauliflower harvested November 27-30, 2018, because they may be contaminated with E. coli O157:H7. Do not eat, sell, or serve any recalled products., Contaminated lettuce that made people sick in this outbreak should no longer be available., , , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, Canada, and the FDA investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O157:H7 (E. coli O157:H7) infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that might be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting was performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on E. coli bacteria from ill people in this outbreak showed that the strains were closely related genetically. This means that the ill people were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of January 9, 2019, 62 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from 16 states and the District of Columbia. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from October 7, 2018, to December 4, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from 1 to 84 years, with a median age of 25. Sixty-six percent of ill people were female. Of 54 people with information available, 25 (46%) were hospitalized, including two people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths were reported., WGS analysis did not identify predicted antibiotic resistance in 51 isolates from 53 ill people. Two isolates contained genes for resistance to ampicillin. Antibiotic resistance testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System laboratory is currently underway. This finding does not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157 infections., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicated that romaine lettuce from the Central Coastal growing regions of northern and central California was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Thirty (83%) of 36 people interviewed reported eating romaine lettuce. This percentage was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people in which 47% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed. Ill people reported eating different types of romaine lettuce in several restaurants and at home., Two illness clusters were identified at restaurants where ill people reported eating romaine lettuce. An illness cluster is defined as two or more people who do not live in the same household who report eating at the same restaurant location, attending a common event, or shopping at the same location of a grocery store in the week before becoming ill. In these two clusters, several ill people reported eating at the same restaurant or shopping at the same location of a grocery store. Investigating illness clusters provides critical clues about the source of an outbreak. If several unrelated ill people ate or shopped at the same location of a restaurant or store within several days of each other, it suggests that the contaminated food item was served or sold there., Traceback information from the FDA indicated that ill people in this outbreak ate romaine lettuce harvested from specific counties in the Central Coastal growing regions of northern and central California. The FDA, along with CDC and state partners, investigated farms and cooling facilities in California that were identified in traceback. CDC analyzed water and sediment samples from an Adam Bros. Farming, Inc. farm in Santa Barbara County, which was one of the farms identified in the traceback investigation. The outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 was found in sediment within an agricultural water reservoir on the farm. WGS results showed that the E. coli O157:H7 found in the agricultural water reservoir was closely related genetically to the E. coli O157:H7 isolated from ill people., WGS results also showed that the E. coli O157:H7 strain isolated from ill people in this outbreak is closely related genetically to the E. coli strain isolated from ill people in a 2017 outbreak linked to leafy greens in the United States and to romaine lettuce in CanadaExternal. The outbreak described here is not related to a spring 2018 multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections linked to romaine lettuce. People in the spring outbreak were infected with E. coli O157:H7 bacteria with a different DNA fingerprint., FDA is continuing to investigate to learn more about how the E. coli bacteria could have entered the agricultural water reservoir and ways romaine lettuce from the farm could have been contaminated. The FDA is able to confirm that Adam Bros. Farming, Inc. has not shipped romaine since November 20, 2018. Romaine lettuce from Adam Bros. Farming, Inc. linked to this outbreak is no longer available for sale., FDA continues its investigation of farms identified in traceback., As of January 9, 2019, this outbreak appears to be over., Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'ad618d4ce5faeb9b39d069357bdea4fbe2ceae9b3e7ddbecbdc7402508eb6900', 'headline': 'Outbreak of E. coli Infections Linked to Ground Beef  | E. coli Infections Linked to Ground Beef | September 2018 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 17, 2, 36, 6, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=394551', 'main_text': '[Posted September 20, 2018 at 5:00 PM ET, CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS)External investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O26 (E. coli O26) infections linked to ground beef from Cargill Meat Solutions. This outbreak appears to be over., , , , , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS)External investigated a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O26 (E. coli O26)infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on E. coli from ill people in this outbreak showed that they were closely related genetically. This means that the ill people were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of September 19, 2018, 18 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O26 were reported from 4 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Map of Reported Cases page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from July 5, 2018 to July 25, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from one year to 75, with a median age of 16. Sixty-seven percent of ill people were male. Of 18 people with information available, 6 (33%) were hospitalized, including one person who died in Florida., WGS analysis of isolates from 13 ill people did not identify any antibiotic resistance. Standard antibiotic resistance testing by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory is underway., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicates that ground beef from Cargill Meat Solutions was a likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Fourteen (100%) of 14 people interviewed reported eating ground beef. Ill people purchased ground beef from several different grocery stores., USDA-FSIS conducted traceback investigations from stores where ill people reported buying ground beef. Initial information collected from ill people in Florida indicated that the ground beef was purchased from various Publix grocery stores. On August 30, 2018, Publix Super Markets, Inc. recalledExternal ground chuck products sold in several Florida counties., Further traceback investigation by USDA-FSIS identified Cargill Meat Solutions in Fort Morgan, Colorado as the source of the contaminated ground beef linked to illness, including the recalled ground beef sold at Publix stores in Florida. On September 19, 2018, Cargill Meat Solutions recalledExternal ground beef products that were produced and packaged on June 21, 2018. Products are labeled with the establishment number “EST. 86R” inside the USDA mark of inspection. The products were shipped to retailers Cdc-pdf[PDF – 240 KB]External nationwide. Visit the USDA-FSIS website for a list of recalled products Cdc-pdf[PDF – 40.2 KB]External., Laboratory testing identified the outbreak strain of E. coli O26 in leftover ground beef collected from the home of one ill person in Florida. WGS analysis showed that the E. coli O26 strain identified in the leftover ground beef was highly related genetically to the E. coli O26 strain isolated from ill people., This outbreak appears to be over., Previous Updates &gt;&gt;', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'a0fea2785bf419a70ccecb3e01d9ccc97fb9308a90829bcd4d0b831187846715', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 Infections Linked to Romaine Lettuce (Final Update) | Investigation Notice: Multistate Outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 Infections April 2018 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 17, 6, 51, 20, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=382252', 'main_text': 'Posted June 28, 2018 3:30 PM EST, This outbreak appears to be over. E. coli is an important cause of illness in the United States. More information about E. coli, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the E. coli and Food Safety web page., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on bacteria isolated from ill people in this outbreak showed that they were closely related genetically. This means that the ill people were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of June 27, 2018, 210 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from 36 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 13, 2018 to June 6, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from 1 to 88 years, with a median age of 28. Sixty-seven percent of ill people were female. Of 201 people with information available, 96 (48%) were hospitalized, including 27 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. Five deaths were reported from Arkansas, California, Minnesota (2), and New York., WGS analysis of isolates from 184 ill people identified antibiotic resistance to chloramphenicol, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Standard antibiotic resistance testing of eight clinical isolates by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory confirmed these findings. Isolates from four of those ill people also contained genes for resistance to ampicillin and ceftriaxone. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157 infections., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicated that romaine lettuce from the Yuma growing region was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures they had before they became ill. Of the 166 people interviewed, 145 (87%) reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before their illness started. This percentage was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people in which 46% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed. Some people who became sick in this outbreak did not report eating romaine lettuce, but had close contact with someone else who got sick from eating romaine lettuce., The FDA and state and local regulatory officials traced the romaine lettuce to many farms in the Yuma growing region. The FDA, along with CDC and state partners, started an environmental assessment in the Yuma growing region and collected samples of water, soil, and manure. CDC laboratory testing identified the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 in water samples taken from a canal in the Yuma growing region. WGS showed that the E. coli O157:H7 found in the canal water is closely related genetically to the E. coli O157:H7 from ill people. Laboratory testing for other environmental samples is continuing. FDA is continuing to investigate to learn more about how the E. coli bacteria could have entered the water and ways this water could have contaminated romaine lettuce in the region., According to the FDA, the last shipments of romaine lettuce from the Yuma growing region were harvested on April 16, 2018, and the harvest season there has ended. Contaminated lettuce that made people sick in this outbreak should no longer be available., As of June 28, 2018, this outbreak appears to be over., , Since the last update on May 16, 2018, 25 more ill people were added to this outbreak., As of May 30, 2018, 197 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 35 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 13, 2018 to May 12, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 88 years, with a median age of 29. Sixty-eight percent of ill people are female. Of 187 people with information available, 89 (48%) have been hospitalized, including 26 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. Five deaths have been reported from Arkansas (1), California (1), Minnesota (2), and New York (1)., Illnesses that occurred after May 6, 2018 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to three weeks., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures they had before they became ill. Of the 158 people interviewed, 140 (89%) reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before their illness started. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy people in which 46% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed., Most of the people who recently became ill ate romaine lettuce when lettuce from the Yuma growing region was likely still available in stores, restaurants, or in peoples’ homes. Some people who became sick did not report eating romaine lettuce, but had close contact with someone else who got sick from eating romaine lettuce., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., , Since the last update on May 9, 2018, 23 more ill  people were added to this outbreak., As of May 15, 2018, 172 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 32 states.  A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging  from March 13, 2018 to May 2, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 88  years, with a median age of 29. Sixty-five percent of ill people are female. Of  157 people with information available, 75 (48%) have been hospitalized,  including 20 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney  failure. One death was reported from California., Illnesses that occurred after April 21, 2018,  might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person  becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an  average of two to three weeks., According to the FDAExternal, the last shipments of romaine lettuce from the Yuma  growing region were harvested on April 16, 2018, and the harvest season is  over. It is unlikely that any romaine lettuce from the Yuma growing region is  still available in people’s homes, stores, or restaurants due to its 21-day  shelf life. The most recent illnesses reported to CDC started when romaine  lettuce from the Yuma growing region was likely still available in stores,  restaurants, and in peoples’ homes., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more  information as it becomes available., , Since the last update on May 2, 2018, 28 more ill people were added to this outbreak., As of May 8, 2018, 149 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 29 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 13, 2018 to April 25, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 88 years, with a median age of 30. Sixty-five percent of ill people are female. Of 129 people with information available, 64 (50%) have been hospitalized, including 17 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. One death was reported from California., Illnesses that occurred after April 17, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to three weeks., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures they had before they became ill. Of the 112 people interviewed, 102 (91%) reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before their illness started. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[787 KB] of healthy people in which 46% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed., Information collected to date indicates that romaine lettuce from the Yuma growing region could be contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 and could make people sick. Read CDC’s advice to consumers, restaurants, retailers, and clinicians., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., , Since the last update on April 27, 2018, 23 more ill people were added to this outbreak., As of May 1, 2018, 121 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 25 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 13, 2018 to April 21, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 88 years, with a median age of 29. Sixty-three percent of ill people are female. Of 102 people with information available, 52 (51%) have been hospitalized, including 14 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. One death was reported from California., Illnesses that occurred after April 11, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to three weeks., , Since the last update on April 25, 2018, 14 more ill people were added to this outbreak., As of April 26, 2018, 98 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 22 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 13, 2018 to April 20, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 88 years, with a median age of 31. Sixty-five percent of ill people are female. Of 87 people with information available, 46 (53%) have been hospitalized, including 10 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after April 7, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to three weeks., , Since the last update on April 18, 2018, 31 more people were added to this outbreak., As of April 25, 2018, 84 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 19 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 13, 2018 to April 12, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 88 years, with a median age of 31. Sixty-five percent of ill people are female. Forty-two ill people have been hospitalized, including nine people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after April 5, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to three weeks., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures before they became ill. Sixty-four (96%) of 67 people interviewed reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before their illness started. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[787 KB] of healthy people in which 46% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed., Information collected to date indicates that romaine lettuce from the Yuma, Arizona growing region could be contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 and could make people sick. Read CDC’s advice to consumers, restaurants, and retailers., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., , State and local health officials in AlaskaExternal interviewed ill people at a correctional facility in that state to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures before they became ill. Ill people reported eating romaine lettuce. Traceback investigations show that the lettuce ill people ate came from whole heads of romaine lettuce from the Yuma, Arizona growing region., The new information from the investigation in Alaska along with other information collected to date indicates that romaine lettuce from the Yuma, Arizona growing region could be contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 and could make people sick. Read CDC’s advice to consumers, restaurants, and retailers., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more information as it becomes available. The new Alaska cases will be included in the next case count update; they are not reflected on the epi curve and map for this posting., , Since the last update on April 13, 2018, 18 more people were added to this outbreak., As of April 18, 2018, 53 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 16 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 13, 2018 to April 6, 2018. Ill people range in age from 10 to 85 years, with a median age of 34. Seventy percent of ill people are female. Thirty-one ill people have been hospitalized, including five people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after March 29, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to three weeks., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures before they became ill. Forty-one (95%) of 43 people interviewed reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before their illness started. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[787 KB] of healthy people in which 46% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed. Most people reported eating a salad at a restaurant, and romaine lettuce was the only common ingredient identified among the salads eaten. The restaurants reported using bagged, chopped romaine lettuce to make salads. At this time, ill people are not reporting whole heads or hearts of romaine., Information collected to date indicates that chopped romaine lettuce from the Yuma, Arizona growing region could be contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 and could make people sick. Read CDC’s advice to consumers, restaurants, and retailers., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., , Since the last update on April 10, 2018, 18 more people from 9 states were added to this outbreak., As of April 12, 2018, 35 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 11 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 22, 2018 to March 31, 2018. Ill people range in age from 12 to 84 years, with a median age of 29. Sixty-nine percent of ill people are female. Twenty-two ill people have been hospitalized, including three people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after March 27, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to three weeks., The current outbreak is not related to a recent multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections linked to leafy greens. People in the previous outbreak were infected with a different DNA fingerprint of E. coli O157:H7 bacteria., Epidemiologic evidence collected to date indicates that chopped romaine lettuce is the likely source of this outbreak. Twenty-six (93%) of 28 people interviewed reported consuming romaine lettuce in the week before their illness started. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[787 KB] of healthy people in which 46% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed. Most people reported eating a salad at a restaurant, and romaine lettuce was the only common ingredient identified among the salads eaten. The restaurants reported using bagged, chopped romaine lettuce to make salads. At this time, ill people are not reporting whole heads or hearts of romaine., Traceback investigations are ongoing to determine the source of chopped romaine lettuce supplied to restaurant locations where ill people ate. At this time, no common grower, supplier, distributor, or brand has been identified. However, preliminary information indicates that the chopped romaine lettuce was from the Yuma, Arizona growing region., Information collected to date indicates that chopped romaine lettuce from the Yuma, Arizona growing region could be contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 and could make people sick. Read CDC’s advice to consumers, restaurants, and retailers., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., , CDC, several states, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service are investigating a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli O157:H7 infections. This investigation includes E. coli O157:H7 infections recently reported by the New Jersey Department of HealthExternal., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., Illnesses reported by investigators in New Jersey also included ill people who had a diagnostic test showing they were infected with E. coli bacteria. Laboratory testing is ongoing to link their illnesses to the outbreak using DNA fingerprinting. Some people may not be included in CDC’s case count because no bacterial isolates are available for the DNA fingerprinting needed to link them to the outbreak., As of April 9, 2018, 17 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 7 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 22, 2018 to March 31, 2018. Ill people range in age from 12 to 84 years, with a median age of 41. Among ill people, 65% are female. Six ill people have been hospitalized, including one person who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., The investigation is still ongoing and a specific food item, grocery store, or restaurant chain has not been identified as the source of infections. State and local public health officials are interviewing ill people to determine what they ate and other exposures in the week before their illness started., CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., , , Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '5bf87d5848b23356ab90d39fb5dcb5f5b9a2b1557e4c5ec7e80c5f27ae74eb10', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 Infections Linked to Romaine Lettuce (Final Update) | Investigation Notice: Multistate Outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 Infections April 2018 | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 17, 6, 51, 20, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=380608', 'main_text': 'Posted June 28, 2018 3:30 PM EST, This outbreak appears to be over. E. coli is an important cause of illness in the United States. More information about E. coli, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the E. coli and Food Safety web page., , CDC, public health and regulatory officials in several states, and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA) investigated a multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that were part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE. WGS performed on bacteria isolated from ill people in this outbreak showed that they were closely related genetically. This means that the ill people were more likely to share a common source of infection., As of June 27, 2018, 210 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 were reported from 36 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 13, 2018 to June 6, 2018. Ill people ranged in age from 1 to 88 years, with a median age of 28. Sixty-seven percent of ill people were female. Of 201 people with information available, 96 (48%) were hospitalized, including 27 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. Five deaths were reported from Arkansas, California, Minnesota (2), and New York., WGS analysis of isolates from 184 ill people identified antibiotic resistance to chloramphenicol, streptomycin, sulfisoxazole, tetracycline, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Standard antibiotic resistance testing of eight clinical isolates by CDC’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) laboratory confirmed these findings. Isolates from four of those ill people also contained genes for resistance to ampicillin and ceftriaxone. These findings do not affect treatment guidance since antibiotics are not recommended for patients with E. coli O157 infections., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicated that romaine lettuce from the Yuma growing region was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures they had before they became ill. Of the 166 people interviewed, 145 (87%) reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before their illness started. This percentage was significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 787 KB] of healthy people in which 46% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed. Some people who became sick in this outbreak did not report eating romaine lettuce, but had close contact with someone else who got sick from eating romaine lettuce., The FDA and state and local regulatory officials traced the romaine lettuce to many farms in the Yuma growing region. The FDA, along with CDC and state partners, started an environmental assessment in the Yuma growing region and collected samples of water, soil, and manure. CDC laboratory testing identified the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 in water samples taken from a canal in the Yuma growing region. WGS showed that the E. coli O157:H7 found in the canal water is closely related genetically to the E. coli O157:H7 from ill people. Laboratory testing for other environmental samples is continuing. FDA is continuing to investigate to learn more about how the E. coli bacteria could have entered the water and ways this water could have contaminated romaine lettuce in the region., According to the FDA, the last shipments of romaine lettuce from the Yuma growing region were harvested on April 16, 2018, and the harvest season there has ended. Contaminated lettuce that made people sick in this outbreak should no longer be available., As of June 28, 2018, this outbreak appears to be over., , Since the last update on May 16, 2018, 25 more ill people were added to this outbreak., As of May 30, 2018, 197 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 35 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 13, 2018 to May 12, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 88 years, with a median age of 29. Sixty-eight percent of ill people are female. Of 187 people with information available, 89 (48%) have been hospitalized, including 26 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. Five deaths have been reported from Arkansas (1), California (1), Minnesota (2), and New York (1)., Illnesses that occurred after May 6, 2018 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to three weeks., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures they had before they became ill. Of the 158 people interviewed, 140 (89%) reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before their illness started. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy people in which 46% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed., Most of the people who recently became ill ate romaine lettuce when lettuce from the Yuma growing region was likely still available in stores, restaurants, or in peoples’ homes. Some people who became sick did not report eating romaine lettuce, but had close contact with someone else who got sick from eating romaine lettuce., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., , Since the last update on May 9, 2018, 23 more ill  people were added to this outbreak., As of May 15, 2018, 172 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 32 states.  A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging  from March 13, 2018 to May 2, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 88  years, with a median age of 29. Sixty-five percent of ill people are female. Of  157 people with information available, 75 (48%) have been hospitalized,  including 20 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney  failure. One death was reported from California., Illnesses that occurred after April 21, 2018,  might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person  becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an  average of two to three weeks., According to the FDAExternal, the last shipments of romaine lettuce from the Yuma  growing region were harvested on April 16, 2018, and the harvest season is  over. It is unlikely that any romaine lettuce from the Yuma growing region is  still available in people’s homes, stores, or restaurants due to its 21-day  shelf life. The most recent illnesses reported to CDC started when romaine  lettuce from the Yuma growing region was likely still available in stores,  restaurants, and in peoples’ homes., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more  information as it becomes available., , Since the last update on May 2, 2018, 28 more ill people were added to this outbreak., As of May 8, 2018, 149 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 29 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 13, 2018 to April 25, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 88 years, with a median age of 30. Sixty-five percent of ill people are female. Of 129 people with information available, 64 (50%) have been hospitalized, including 17 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. One death was reported from California., Illnesses that occurred after April 17, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to three weeks., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures they had before they became ill. Of the 112 people interviewed, 102 (91%) reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before their illness started. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[787 KB] of healthy people in which 46% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed., Information collected to date indicates that romaine lettuce from the Yuma growing region could be contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 and could make people sick. Read CDC’s advice to consumers, restaurants, retailers, and clinicians., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., , Since the last update on April 27, 2018, 23 more ill people were added to this outbreak., As of May 1, 2018, 121 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 25 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 13, 2018 to April 21, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 88 years, with a median age of 29. Sixty-three percent of ill people are female. Of 102 people with information available, 52 (51%) have been hospitalized, including 14 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. One death was reported from California., Illnesses that occurred after April 11, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to three weeks., , Since the last update on April 25, 2018, 14 more ill people were added to this outbreak., As of April 26, 2018, 98 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 22 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 13, 2018 to April 20, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 88 years, with a median age of 31. Sixty-five percent of ill people are female. Of 87 people with information available, 46 (53%) have been hospitalized, including 10 people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after April 7, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to three weeks., , Since the last update on April 18, 2018, 31 more people were added to this outbreak., As of April 25, 2018, 84 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 19 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 13, 2018 to April 12, 2018. Ill people range in age from 1 to 88 years, with a median age of 31. Sixty-five percent of ill people are female. Forty-two ill people have been hospitalized, including nine people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after April 5, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to three weeks., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures before they became ill. Sixty-four (96%) of 67 people interviewed reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before their illness started. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[787 KB] of healthy people in which 46% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed., Information collected to date indicates that romaine lettuce from the Yuma, Arizona growing region could be contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 and could make people sick. Read CDC’s advice to consumers, restaurants, and retailers., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., , State and local health officials in AlaskaExternal interviewed ill people at a correctional facility in that state to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures before they became ill. Ill people reported eating romaine lettuce. Traceback investigations show that the lettuce ill people ate came from whole heads of romaine lettuce from the Yuma, Arizona growing region., The new information from the investigation in Alaska along with other information collected to date indicates that romaine lettuce from the Yuma, Arizona growing region could be contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 and could make people sick. Read CDC’s advice to consumers, restaurants, and retailers., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more information as it becomes available. The new Alaska cases will be included in the next case count update; they are not reflected on the epi curve and map for this posting., , Since the last update on April 13, 2018, 18 more people were added to this outbreak., As of April 18, 2018, 53 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 16 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 13, 2018 to April 6, 2018. Ill people range in age from 10 to 85 years, with a median age of 34. Seventy percent of ill people are female. Thirty-one ill people have been hospitalized, including five people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after March 29, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to three weeks., State and local health officials continue to interview ill people to ask about the foods they ate and other exposures before they became ill. Forty-one (95%) of 43 people interviewed reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before their illness started. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[787 KB] of healthy people in which 46% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed. Most people reported eating a salad at a restaurant, and romaine lettuce was the only common ingredient identified among the salads eaten. The restaurants reported using bagged, chopped romaine lettuce to make salads. At this time, ill people are not reporting whole heads or hearts of romaine., Information collected to date indicates that chopped romaine lettuce from the Yuma, Arizona growing region could be contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 and could make people sick. Read CDC’s advice to consumers, restaurants, and retailers., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., , Since the last update on April 10, 2018, 18 more people from 9 states were added to this outbreak., As of April 12, 2018, 35 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 11 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 22, 2018 to March 31, 2018. Ill people range in age from 12 to 84 years, with a median age of 29. Sixty-nine percent of ill people are female. Twenty-two ill people have been hospitalized, including three people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after March 27, 2018, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill with E. coli and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of two to three weeks., The current outbreak is not related to a recent multistate outbreak of E. coli O157:H7 infections linked to leafy greens. People in the previous outbreak were infected with a different DNA fingerprint of E. coli O157:H7 bacteria., Epidemiologic evidence collected to date indicates that chopped romaine lettuce is the likely source of this outbreak. Twenty-six (93%) of 28 people interviewed reported consuming romaine lettuce in the week before their illness started. This percentage is significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[787 KB] of healthy people in which 46% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed. Most people reported eating a salad at a restaurant, and romaine lettuce was the only common ingredient identified among the salads eaten. The restaurants reported using bagged, chopped romaine lettuce to make salads. At this time, ill people are not reporting whole heads or hearts of romaine., Traceback investigations are ongoing to determine the source of chopped romaine lettuce supplied to restaurant locations where ill people ate. At this time, no common grower, supplier, distributor, or brand has been identified. However, preliminary information indicates that the chopped romaine lettuce was from the Yuma, Arizona growing region., Information collected to date indicates that chopped romaine lettuce from the Yuma, Arizona growing region could be contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 and could make people sick. Read CDC’s advice to consumers, restaurants, and retailers., This investigation is ongoing, and CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., , CDC, several states, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Food Safety and Inspection Service are investigating a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli O157:H7 infections. This investigation includes E. coli O157:H7 infections recently reported by the New Jersey Department of HealthExternal., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories coordinated by CDC. DNA fingerprinting is performed on E. coli bacteria isolated from ill people using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., Illnesses reported by investigators in New Jersey also included ill people who had a diagnostic test showing they were infected with E. coli bacteria. Laboratory testing is ongoing to link their illnesses to the outbreak using DNA fingerprinting. Some people may not be included in CDC’s case count because no bacterial isolates are available for the DNA fingerprinting needed to link them to the outbreak., As of April 9, 2018, 17 people infected with the outbreak strain of E. coli O157:H7 have been reported from 7 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from March 22, 2018 to March 31, 2018. Ill people range in age from 12 to 84 years, with a median age of 41. Among ill people, 65% are female. Six ill people have been hospitalized, including one person who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., The investigation is still ongoing and a specific food item, grocery store, or restaurant chain has not been identified as the source of infections. State and local public health officials are interviewing ill people to determine what they ate and other exposures in the week before their illness started., CDC will provide more information as it becomes available., , , Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '48ba7f9a3cd5525204d2f204b7828ff2127a906efa400a9d0eba38b04f2b1ff2', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O157:H7 Infections Linked to Leafy Greens (Final Update) | E. coli | CDC', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 17, 6, 55, 48, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=380607', 'main_text': 'Posted January 25, 2018 11:00 AM EST, This outbreak appears to be over. Shiga toxin-producing E. coli (STEC) is an important cause of illness in the United States. More information about STEC, and steps people can take to reduce their risk of infection, can be found on the Shiga toxin-producing E. coli and Food Safety web page., , On December 11, 2017, the Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) announcedExternal an outbreak of 21 STEC O157:H7 infections in three provinces linked to romaine lettuce. That same day, CDC PulseNet, the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories, identified a cluster of five STEC O157:H7 infections in the United States. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on STEC bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). WGS gives a more detailed DNA fingerprint than PFGE., On December 11, CDC began an investigation, along with several states and the U.S. Food and Drug AdministrationExternal (FDA), into the source of the five illnesses in the United States. This investigation included reaching out to state health departments to find out what foods ill people ate before they got sick, and requesting that isolates from ill people undergo WGS so that investigators could compare the results to WGS results from ill people in Canada., On December 20, initial WGS results showed that three isolates from ill people in the United States were closely related genetically to one isolate from an ill person in Canada. However, laboratory testing data alone are not enough to prove a link. Health officials rely on other types of data, such as interviews from ill people, to support laboratory findings. State and local public health officials worked to interview ill people to determine what they ate in the week before their illness started. As of December 20, four ill people in the U.S. outbreak had been interviewed. One of the four ill people reported possibly eating romaine lettuce in the week before their illness started. The investigation continued to determine the source of the illnesses in the United States., By December 28, 13 ill people in the United States had been interviewed. All 13 people reported eating various types of leafy greens. Fifty-six percent of ill people specifically reported eating romaine lettuce. This percentage was not significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy people in which 46% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed. Based on this information, U.S. health officials concluded that ill people in this outbreak were not more likely than healthy people to have eaten romaine lettuce. Ill people also reported eating different types and brands of romaine lettuce. No common supplier, distributor, or retailer of leafy greens had been identified as a possible source of the outbreak and the investigation continued., As of January 25, 2018, 25 people infected with the outbreak strain of STEC O157:H7 had been reported from 15 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Illnesses started on dates ranging from November 5, 2017 to December 12, 2017. Ill people ranged in age from 1 to 95 years, with a median age of 26. Among ill people, 67% were female. Nine ill people were hospitalized, including two people who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. One death was reported from California., By the end of the investigation, 15 people had been interviewed about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before illness began. Ninety-three percent of ill people reported eating any type of leafy greens. Fifty-five percent of ill people specifically reported eating romaine lettuce. This percentage was not significantly higher than results from a survey Cdc-pdf[PDF – 29 pages] of healthy people in which 46% reported eating romaine lettuce in the week before they were interviewed. No other food items linked to illness were identified., This outbreak appears to be over. The likely source of the outbreak in the United States appears to be leafy greens, but the investigation did not identify a specific type of leafy greens as the source of the outbreak. Leafy greens typically have a short shelf life, and since the last illness started a month ago, it is likely that contaminated leafy greens linked to this outbreak are no longer available. Sometimes outbreaks end before enough information is available to identify the likely source. Officials thoroughly investigate each outbreak, and they are continually working to develop new ways to investigate and solve outbreaks faster., January 10, 2018, December 28, 2017, , , , Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '2afeb0aaf7ca096b4191b6e444eb0f84f030cd51a10cfb18bb5d3cab8bbd4c13', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O157:H7 Infections Linked to I.M. Healthy Brand SoyNut Butter', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 17, 6, 54, 53, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=380606', 'main_text': 'Posted May 4, 2017 11:45 AM EST, Although the outbreak investigation is over, illnesses may continue for some time. The recalled SoyNut Butter products have long shelf lives and may still be in people’s homes or in institutions. People who don’t know about the recalls could continue to eat the products and get sick. The recalled products are listed on the Recalls &amp; Advice to Consumers page., CDC collaborated with public health and regulatory officials in many states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External to investigate a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that might be part of this outbreak. Thirty-two people infected with the outbreak strains of STEC O157:H7 were reported from 12 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) performed on clinical isolates from ill people showed that the isolates were closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship provided more evidence that people in this outbreak became ill from a common source., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 4, 2017 to April 18, 2017. Ill people ranged in age from 1 to 70 years, with a median age of 9. Twenty-six (81%) of the 32 ill people were younger than 18 years. Among ill people, 59% were male. Twelve ill people were hospitalized, and 9 people developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths were reported., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicated that I.M. Health brand SoyNut Butter was the likely source of this outbreak. SoyNut Butter is a nut-free substitute for peanut butter., In interviews, ill people or their family members answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Twenty-five (78%) of the 32 people reached for interview reported either eating I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter at home (19 people) in the week before they became ill, attending a facility that served I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter (2 people), or attending childcare centers that served I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter and I.M. Healthy brand granola coated with SoyNut Butter (4 people)., Investigators reported to CDC two more ill people who either developed HUS or had a diagnostic test showing they were infected with STEC bacteria. In interviews, both of these ill people reported eating I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter in the week before becoming ill. However, CDC did not include these people in the outbreak case count because no bacterial isolates, or samples, were available for DNA fingerprinting. Public health investigators use DNA fingerprinting to identify illnesses that are part of multistate outbreaks., Laboratory testing identified STEC O157:H7 in opened containers of I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter collected from the homes of ill people in California, Oregon, and Washington. Officials in California also isolated STEC O157:H7 in unopened containers of I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter collected from retail locations. WGS showed that the STEC O157:H7 in all of these containers of SoyNut Butter were closely related genetically to isolates from ill people, providing more evidence that people in this outbreak got sick from eating I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut butter., Although the outbreak investigation is over, illnesses may continue for some time. The recalled SoyNut Butter products have long shelf lives and may still be in people’s homes or in institutions. Consumers who don’t know about the recalls could continue to eat the products and get sick. The recalled products are listed on the Recalls &amp; Advice to Consumers page., Since the last update on March 21, 2017, six more ill people have been reported from four states., Twenty-nine people infected with the outbreak strains of STEC O157:H7 have been reported from 12 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 4, 2017, to March 13, 2017. Ill people range in age from 1 to 57 years, with a median age of 8. Twenty-four (83%) of the 29 ill people are younger than 18 years. Among ill people, 59% are male. Twelve ill people have been hospitalized, and nine people developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after March 7, 2017, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of E. coli O157:H7 Infection for more details., In interviews, ill people or their family members answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Twenty-one (75%) of the 28 people reached for interview reported either eating I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter at home (15 people) in the week before they became ill, attending a facility that served I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter (2 people), or attending childcare centers that served I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter and I.M. Healthy brand granola coated with SoyNut Butter (4 people)., The investigation is ongoing. CDC will update the public when more information becomes available., Since the last update on March 13, 2017, seven more ill people have been reported from four states., Twenty-three people infected with the outbreak strains of STEC O157:H7 have been reported from nine states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 4, 2017, to March 5, 2017. Ill people range in age from 1 to 48 years, with a median age of 8. Twenty (87%) of the 23 ill people are younger than 18 years. Among ill people, 61% are male. Ten ill people have been hospitalized and seven people developed hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after February 24, 2017, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of E. coli O157:H7 Infection for more details., In interviews, ill people or their family members answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Twenty (87%) of the 23 people reached for interview reported either eating I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter at home (14 people) in the week before they became ill, attending a facility that served I.M. Health brand SoyNut Butter (2 people), or attending childcare centers that served I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter and I.M. Healthy brand granola coated with SoyNut Butter (4 people). SoyNut Butter is a nut-free substitute for peanut butter., Investigators have reported to CDC two more ill people who either developed HUS or had a diagnostic test showing they were infected with STEC bacteria.  In interviews, both of these ill people reported eating I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter in the week before becoming ill. However, CDC is not including these people in the outbreak case count because no bacterial isolates, or samples, were available for DNA fingerprinting. Public health investigators use DNA fingerprinting to identify illnesses that are part of outbreaks., Laboratory testing identified STEC O157:H7 in opened containers of I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter collected from the homes of ill people in California, Oregon, and Washington. Officials in California also isolated STEC O157:H7 in unopened containers of I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter collected from retail locations. Further testing using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) showed that the STEC O157:H7 in all of these containers of SoyNut Butter had the same DNA fingerprints as the STEC O157:H7 isolates from ill people., The investigation is ongoing. CDC will update the public when more information becomes available., Since the last update on March 3, 2017, four more ill people have been reported from four states., Sixteen people infected with the outbreak strain of STEC O157:H7 have been reported from nine states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 4, 2017 to February 21, 2017. Ill people range in age from 2 to 48 years, with a median age of 10. Fourteen (88%) of the 16 ill people are younger than 18 years old. Among ill people, 63% are male. Eight ill people have been hospitalized and five people developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after February 13, 2017, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases ofE. coli O157:H7 Infection for more details., In interviews, ill people or their family members answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Fifteen (100%) of the 15 people reached for interview reported either eating I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter at home (nine people) in the week before they became ill, attending a facility that served I.M. Health brand SoyNut Butter (two people), or attending childcare centers that served I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter and I.M. Healthy brand granola coated with SoyNut Butter (four people)., , CDC is collaborating with public health and regulatory officials in several states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O157:H7 (STEC O157:H7) infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on STEC bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. In this outbreak, the outbreak strain was defined by PFGE. The DNA fingerprint of the outbreak strain has never been seen before in the PulseNet database., Twelve people infected with the outbreak strain of STEC O157:H7 have been reported from five states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from January 6, 2017 to February 15, 2017. Ill people range in age from 2 to 48 years, with a median age of 8. Eleven (92%) of the 12 ill people are younger than 18 years old. Among ill people, 58% are male. Six ill people have been hospitalized and four people developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after February 8, 2017 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of E. coli O157:H7 Infection for more details., Epidemiologic evidence available at this time indicates that I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter is a likely source of this outbreak. SoyNut Butter is a nut-free substitute for peanut butter., In interviews, ill people or their family members answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Nine (100%) of the nine people reached for interview reported either eating I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter at home (five people) in the week before they became ill or attending a childcare center that served I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter or I.M. Healthy brand granola coated with SoyNut Butter (four people). This proportion is significantly higher than expected when compared to the approximately 6% of ill people interviewed during past outbreak investigations who reported eating a ground nut butter or spread other than peanut butter., I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter may be contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 and could make people sick. CDC recommends consumers do not eat any I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter varieties or sizes or I.M. Healthy brand granola coated with SoyNut Butter. Childcare centers, schools, and other institutions should not serve I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut Butter or I.M. Healthy brand granola coated with SoyNut Butter. Multiple varieties and sizes of I.M. Healthy brand SoyNut butter and I.M. Healthy brand granola coated with SoyNut Butter are sold nationwide in stores, online, and to institutions. The products have a shelf life of 2 years., This investigation is ongoing and quickly changing. CDC will provide updates when more information is available., , , Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': 'ef3cc6976b8c860b4855238201feb5fd853eb0cef8de2a4673835ed7b4a09df2', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O157:H7 Infections Linked to Beef Products Produced by Adams Farm', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 17, 7, 1, 7, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=380605', 'main_text': 'Posted October 19, 2016 12:15PM EST, This outbreak appears to be over. However, the recalled beef, veal, and bison products may still be in freezers. Consumers who don’t know about the outbreak could continue to eat recalled products and get sick. Read the Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers., , CDC collaborated with public health and regulatory officials in several states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS)  to investigate a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O157:H7 (STEC O157:H7) infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on STEC bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. In this outbreak, the outbreak strain was defined by PFGE., Eleven people infected with the outbreak strain of STEC O157:H7 were reported from five states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from June 27, 2016 to September 10, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from 1 year to 74, with a median age of 32. Forty-five percent of ill people were female. Seven ill people were hospitalized. One ill person developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure, and no deaths were reported., Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory evidence indicated that beef products produced by Adams Farm Slaughterhouse in Athol, Massachusetts, were the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Seven (100%) of the seven people reached for interview reported eating ground beef in the week before they became ill. Traceback information indicated that six (86%) of these seven ill people ate ground beef produced by Adams Farm Slaughterhouse., The Connecticut Department of Public Health collected leftover Adams Farm Slaughterhouse ground beef from an ill person’s home and from a restaurant for testing. Test results showed the outbreak strain of STEC O157:H7 in both samples of leftover ground beef., On September 24, 2016, Adams Farm Slaughterhouse recalledExternal various cuts of beef, veal, and bison products due to possible E. coli O157:H7 contamination. The products originated from animals slaughtered on July 15, 25, and 27, 2016 and August 3, 8, 10, 11, 17, 24, and 26, 2016, and further processed and packed on various dates between July 21 and September 22, 2016. These items were shipped to farmers’ markets, retail locations, and restaurants in Massachusetts, Connecticut, and eastern New York. The products may have been shipped to neighboring states. The products subject to recall have establishment number EST. 5497 inside the USDA mark of inspection and include several lot numbers and cuts of meat. The full list can be found on the USDA-FSIS websiteExternal., This outbreak appears to be over. However, the recalled beef, veal, and bison products may still be in freezers. Consumers who don’t know about the outbreak could continue to eat recalled products and get sick. Read the Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers., , Since the initial announcement on September 24, four more ill people were reported from Massachusetts (2), Pennsylvania (1), and Virginia (1)., Eleven people infected with the outbreak strain of STEC O157:H7 were reported from five states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from June 27, 2016 to September 10, 2016. Ill people ranged in age from 1 year to 74, with a median age of 32. Forty-five percent of ill people were female. Seven ill people were hospitalized. One ill person developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure, and no deaths were reported., This outbreak appears to be over. However, the recalled beef, veal, and bison products may still be in freezers. Consumers who don’t know about the outbreak could continue to eat recalled products and get sick. Read the Recall and Advice to Consumers, Restaurants, and Retailers., , CDC is collaborating with public health and regulatory officials in multiple states and the U.S. Department of Agriculture Food Safety and Inspection Service (USDA-FSIS)  to investigate a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O157:H7 (STEC O157:H7) infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on STEC bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks. In this outbreak, the outbreak strain was defined by PFGE., Seven people infected with the outbreak strain of STEC O157:H7 have been reported from four states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from June 27, 2016 to September 4, 2016. Ill people range in age from 1 year to 74, with a median age of 25. Fifty-seven percent of ill people are female. Five ill people have been hospitalized. No one has developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure, and no deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after September 8, 2016 might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of E. coli O157:H7 Infection for more details., Epidemiologic, traceback, and laboratory evidence indicate that beef products produced by Adams Farm Slaughterhouse in Athol, Massachusetts is a likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. All five (100%) of the five people reached for interview reported eating ground beef in the week before they became ill.  Preliminary traceback information indicates that ill people ate ground beef which had been produced by Adams Farm Slaughterhouse., The Connecticut Department of Public Health collected leftover ground beef from an ill person’s home and from a restaurant for testing; that beef had been produced by Adams Farm Slaughterhouse. Test results showed the outbreak strain ofSTEC O157:H7 in both samples of the leftover ground beef., On September 24, 2016, Adams Farm Slaughterhouse recalledExternal various cuts of beef, veal, and bison products due to possible E. coli O157:H7 contamination. The products originated from animals slaughtered on July 15, 25, and 27, 2016 and August 3, 8, 10, 11, 17, 24 and 26, 2016, and further processed and packed on various dates between July 21, and September 22, 2016. These items were shipped to farmer’s markets, retail locations, and restaurants in Massachusetts, Connecticut, and eastern New York. The products may have been shipped to neighboring states. The products subject to recall have establishment number EST. 5497 inside the USDA mark of inspection and include several lot numbers and cuts of meat. The full list can be found on the USDA websiteExternal., This investigation is ongoing, and we will update the public when more information becomes available. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview those people about foods they ate before they got sick., , , Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}, {'id': '95e3b418ac4309ad6e43b898659665a727c237746b174108bb52e4d8382c8866', 'headline': 'Multistate Outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O121 Infections Linked to Flour (Final Update)', 'date_of_publication': datetime.datetime(2019, 1, 17, 6, 58, 49, tzinfo=tzutc()), 'url': 'https://tools.cdc.gov/podcasts/download.asp?m=342773&c=380604', 'main_text': 'Posted September 29, 2016 12:45PM EST, , Although the outbreak investigation is over, illnesses are expected to continue for some time. The recalled flour and flour products have long shelf lives and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers who don’t know about the recalls could continue to eat the products and get sick. A list of the recalled products and how to identify them is available on the Advice to Consumers page., , , September 29, 2016, CDC worked with public health and regulatory officials in many states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External to investigate a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) infections., Public health investigators used the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on STEC bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., Sixty-three people infected with the outbreak strains of STEC O121 or STEC O26 were reported from 24 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. WGS showed that isolates from ill people were closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak were more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from December 21, 2015 to September 5, 2016. Ill people range in age from 1 year to 95, with a median age of 18. Seventy-six percent of ill people were female. Seventeen ill people were hospitalized. One person developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure, and no deaths were reported., Epidemiologic, laboratory, and traceback evidence indicated that flour produced at a General Mills facility in Kansas City, Missouri was the likely source of this outbreak., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Twenty-eight (76%) of 37 people reported that they or someone in their household used flour in the week before they became ill. Nineteen (50%) of 38 people reported eating or tasting raw homemade dough or batter. Twenty-one (57%) of 37 people reported using Gold Medal brand flour. Three ill people, all children, reported eating or playing with raw dough at restaurants., In an epidemiologic investigation, investigators compared the responses of ill people in this outbreak to those of people of similar age and gender reported to state health departments with other gastrointestinal illnesses. Results from this investigation indicated an association between getting sick with STEC and someone in the household using Gold Medal brand flour., Federal, state, and local regulatory officials performed traceback investigations using package information collected from ill people’s homes and records collected from restaurants where ill people were exposed to raw dough. These initial investigations indicated that the flour used by ill people or used in the restaurants was produced during the same week in November 2015 at the General Mills facility in Kansas City, Missouri, where Gold Medal brand flour is produced., On May 31, 2016, General Mills recalled several sizes and varieties of Gold Medal Flour, Gold Medal Wondra Flour, and Signature Kitchens Flour due to possible E. coli contamination. The recalled flours were produced in the Kansas City facility and sold nationwide., In June 2016, laboratory testing by FDA isolated STEC O121 in open samples of General Mills flour collected from the homes of ill people in Arizona, Colorado, and Oklahoma. WGS showed that the STEC O121 isolates from the flour samples were closely related genetically to the STEC O121 isolates from ill people. The flour collected in Oklahoma was not included in the initial General Mills recall. The other flour samples that were tested came from lots of flour included in the initial recall announced by General Mills. In July 2016, laboratory testing by General Mills and FDA isolated STEC O26 from a sample of General Mills flour. WGS showed that the STEC O26 isolated from the flour sample was closely related genetically to isolates from an ill person in the PulseNet database. The flour tested was not included in the earlier General Mills recalls. As a result of these findings, General Mills expanded its recall on July 1, 2016 and again on July 25, 2016 to include more production dates., Although the outbreak investigation is over, illnesses are expected to continue for some time. The recalled flour and flour products have long shelf lives and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers who don’t know about the recalls could continue to eat the products and get sick. A list of the recalled products and how to identify them is available on the Advice to Consumers page., This outbreak is a reminder that is it not safe to taste or eat raw dough or batter, whether made from recalled flour or any other flour. Flour or other ingredients used to make raw dough or batter can be contaminated with STEC and other germs that can make people sick., , , Since the last update on July 25, 17 more ill people were reported from 3 states., A total of 63 people infected with the outbreak strains of STEC O121 or STEC O26 were reported from 24 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Although the outbreak investigation is over, illnesses are expected to continue for some time. The recalled flour and flour products have long shelf lives and may still be in people’s homes. Consumers who don’t know about the recalls could continue to eat the products and get sick. A list of the recalled products and how to identify them is available on the Advice to Consumers page., , , Since the last update on July 1, 2016, four more ill people have been reported from two states. An infection with another serotype, Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) O26, has been added to this outbreak investigation., As of July 25, 2016, 46 people infected with the outbreak strains of STEC O121 (45 people) or STEC O26 (1 person) have been reported from 21 states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from December 21, 2015 to June 25, 2016. Ill people range in age from 1 year to 95, with a median age of 18. Eighty percent of ill people are female. Thirteen ill people have been hospitalized. One person developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure. No deaths have been reported., Illnesses that occurred after June 29, 2016, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported to CDC. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of E. coli O157 Infection for more details., In July 2016, laboratory testing by General Mills and FDA isolated STEC O26 from a sample of General Mills flour. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) showed that the STEC O26 isolated from the flour sample was closely related genetically to isolates from an ill person. The flour tested was not included in the earlier General Mills recalls., On July 25, 2016, General Mills expanded its recallExternal to include more production dates. CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and retailers do not use, serve, or sell the recalled flours., This investigation is ongoing. CDC will update the public when more information becomes available., , , Since the last update on June 1, 2016, four more ill people have been reported from four states., As of June 28, 2016, 42 people infected with the outbreak strain of STEC O121 have been reported from 21 states. A list of states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page., Illnesses started on dates ranging from December 21, 2015 to June 8, 2016. Ill people range in age from 1 year to 95, with a median age of 18. Eighty-one percent of ill people are female. Eleven ill people have been hospitalized. No one has developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure, and no deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after June 2, 2016, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported to CDC. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of E. coli O157 Infection for more details., In June 2016, laboratory testing by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External isolated STEC O121 from samples of General Mills flour collected from the home of an ill person in Oklahoma. The STEC O121 isolated from the flour sample has the same PFGE pattern, or DNA fingerprint, as the outbreak strain. The flour collected in Oklahoma was not included in the initial General Mills recall., In the same month, FDA identified STEC O121 in an open sample of General Mills flour collected from the homes of ill people in Colorado and Arizona. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) showed that the STEC O121 isolates from the flour samples were closely related genetically to the STEC O121 isolates from ill people. The flour sample that was tested came from  lots of flour included in the initial recall announced by General Mills., On July 1, 2016, General Mills expanded the recall to include some flours sold under the same brand names included in the initial recall: Gold Medal Flour, Gold Medal Wondra Flour, and Signature Kitchens Flour. CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and retailers do not use, serve, or sell the recalled flours., The investigation is ongoing. CDC will update the public when more information becomes available., , , CDC is collaborating with public health and regulatory officials in multiple states and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)External to investigate a multistate outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O121 (STEC O121) infections., Public health investigators are using the PulseNet system to identify illnesses that may be part of this outbreak. PulseNet, coordinated by CDC, is the national subtyping network of public health and food regulatory agency laboratories. PulseNet performs DNA fingerprinting on STEC bacteria isolated from ill people by using techniques called pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and whole genome sequencing (WGS). CDC PulseNet manages a national database of these DNA fingerprints to identify possible outbreaks., Thirty-eight people infected with the outbreak strain of STEC O121 have been reported from 20 states. A list of the states and the number of cases in each can be found on the Case Count Map page. WGS showed that isolates from ill people are closely related genetically. This close genetic relationship means that people in this outbreak are more likely to share a common source of infection., Illnesses started on dates ranging from December 21, 2015 to May 3, 2016. Ill people range in age from 1 year to 95, with a median age of 18. Seventy-eight percent of ill people are female. Ten ill people have been hospitalized. No one has developed hemolytic uremic syndrome, a type of kidney failure, and no deaths have been reported., This outbreak can be illustrated with a chart showing the number of people who became ill each day. This chart is called an epidemic curve or epi curve. Illnesses that occurred after May 5, 2016, might not yet be reported due to the time it takes between when a person becomes ill and when the illness is reported. This takes an average of 2 to 3 weeks. Please see the Timeline for Reporting Cases of E. coli O157:H7 Infection for more details., Collaborative investigative efforts of state, local, and federal health and regulatory officials indicate that flour produced at General Mills’ Kansas City, Missouri facility is a likely source of this outbreak. This investigation is ongoing., In interviews, ill people answered questions about the foods they ate and other exposures in the week before they became ill. Sixteen (76%) of 21 people reported that they or someone in their household used flour in the week before they became ill. Nine (41%) of 22 people reported eating or tasting raw homemade dough or batter. Twelve (55%) of 22 people reported using Gold Medal brand flour. Three ill people reported eating or playing with raw dough at restaurants., In an epidemiologic investigation, investigators compared the responses of ill people in this outbreak to those of people of similar age and gender reported to state health departments with other illnesses. Preliminary results of this investigation indicate an association between STEC O121 infection and someone in the household using Gold Medal brand flour to make something to eat., Federal and state and local regulatory officials performed traceback investigations using package information collected from ill people and records collected from restaurants where ill people were exposed to raw dough. These investigations indicated that the flour used by ill people or used in restaurant locations was produced in the same week in November 2015 at the General Mills facility in Kansas City, Missouri. General Mills produces Gold Medal brand flour., On May 31, 2016, General Mills recalledExternal several sizes and varieties of Gold Medal Flour, Gold Medal Wondra Flour, and Signature Kitchens Flour due to possible E. coli contamination. The recalled flours were produced in the Kansas City facility during a time frame identified by traceback and sold nationwide. CDC recommends that consumers, restaurants, and retailers do not use, serve, or sell the recalled flours., We will update the public when more information becomes available. CDC and state and local public health partners are continuing laboratory surveillance through PulseNet to identify additional ill people and to interview those people about foods they ate before they got sick., , , , , Sign up for RSS Feed', 'reports': []}]
